Chapter One: When Phileas Fogg meets Passepartout
   London, 1872
Let me begin by introducing a mysterious English gentleman called Phileas Fogg.
Most people don’t know very much about him, but because he does the same thing every day, some people think they know everything about him.
He is very handsome and he is a true gentleman. He is certainly rich, but no one knows how he made his money.
Has he ever been to another country? He can name a lot of countries on a world map and he knows the most incredible things about them. He probably travelled at one time, but some people insist that he has not left London for many years. Maybe he only travels in his head.
He is a very private man and he does not have many friends. The only time he speaks to other people is at the Reform Club, where he goes to read newspapers and play cards. He does not play to win. He plays for the enjoyment of the game. He often wins, but he does not keep the money. He gives it to charity. He likes to see his games as a challenge; a challenge that does not require any physical effort.
He has lunch at the Reform Club every day, in the same room, at the same table. He goes home at midnight. He lives in his house in Savile Row, a good address in central London. No one ever goes there, except his manservant, who must always be on time and be completely loyal to Phileas Fogg. In fact, this very morning, his manservant lost his job because the water he brought Phileas Fogg was too hot to shave with. And this is where our story begins.
Phileas Fogg was sitting in his armchair waiting for his new manservant at some time between eleven and half past eleven. At exactly half past eleven Mr Fogg goes to the Reform Club. He looked up at the hands of the large clock by the wall that counted every second with a loud tick.
There was a knock at the door and a young man of about thirty came in.
‘You say that you are French, but your name is John?’ asked Phileas Fogg, looking at him carefully.
‘Jean, sir, not John,’ said the young man. ‘Jean Passepartout. I am an honest man, sir, and I must tell you that I haven’t been a manservant all my life. I was a physical education teacher and a music teacher; then I became a singer. I once rode a horse in a circus, and for a time I worked for the fire brigade in Paris.’
‘I found out that a certain Mr Fogg was looking for a manservant. “He is a very clever, careful man,” they told me. “You won’t find a quieter man in all of England. He does the same thing every day.” And so I came here to ask about the job, in the hope of finally being able to live a quiet life.’
‘Yes, someone at the Reform Club told you this I believe probably the same person who told me about you. Do you understand what type of person I’m looking for?’
‘Yes, sir. I do, and I think I’m perfect for the job.’
‘Well then, what time is it now?’
‘Eleven twenty-two, Mr Fogg,’ Passepartout replied, taking his pocket-watch out of a small side pocket.
‘Exactly four minutes late,’ noted Phileas Fogg, looking at his own watch. ‘So let’s say you started working for me as from eleven twenty-six.’
Phileas Fogg stood up from his armchair, picked up his hat, and went out of the door without saying another word. From this brief introduction, Passepartout was able to make note of his employer. He was about forty years old, an elegant man with an attractive, gentle face. He was tall, with blond hair and a moustache. He was the sort of person who remained incredibly calm, even under pressure. He had gentle eyes that fixed you with a firm stare. He never seemed upset or worried. He was a typical Englishman. It was always difficult to guess an Englishman’s true feelings.

And our Frenchman? Passepartout had an attractive face and he was incredibly strong. He had blue eyes, and untidy, curly brown hair. He was a sweet person who understood the meaning of true friendship and loyalty.
It was just after half past eleven and Passepartout, who was now alone in his new home, decided to look around. After looking in all the different rooms, he finally came to his own bedroom. Above the fireplace there was an electric clock; it was the same electric clock that Phileas Fogg had in his room. The two clocks ticked at the exact same second. Below the clock there was a piece of paper listing the details of Mr Fogg’s day.
‘Not bad at all,’ thought Passepartout. ‘A man who is as regular as clockwork! This is just what I was looking for.’

Chapter Two: When Phileas Fogg makes a bet
Every day, Phileas Fogg left his house at half past eleven. He put his right foot in front of his left foot 575 times – he knew the exact length of every step – and he put his left foot in front of his right foot 576 times before arriving at the steps of the Reform Club.
He usually waited a little before having lunch at thirty minutes to one. Then he went to the lounge room where he spent the afternoon reading the newspapers. At five o’clock he had afternoon tea and at twenty to six it was time to go to the Games Room to play cards with other wealthy and respected members of the club, like Sir Ralph Gautier and Andrew Sutart.
On this particular day Andrew Stuart started to read a story to them from the evening newspaper about a robbery at the Bank of England.
The robbery took place on 29 September. The thief stole fifty-five thousand pounds while the head cashier was busy writing a receipt for just a few pence. England’s best detectives were looking for the thief after hearing that the Bank of England was offering a reward of two thousand pounds to the person who was able to catch the thief. From the first investigations into the robbery they knew only one thing for certain: he was an elegant, well-spoken gentleman.
While the other members of the club sat at the table, ready to play their game of cards, Andrew Stuart continued to talk about the robbery.
‘Where do you think the thief is hiding? He could be anywhere. The world is so big!’
‘It isn’t so big any more,’ replied Phileas Fogg.
‘What do you mean?’ said Andrew Stuart with a laugh. ‘The earth doesn’t get any smaller!’
‘Ah! But the earth is smaller,’ said Sir Ralph Gautier. ‘If you think that we can now go around it ten times quicker than we could one hundred years ago. Did you know that today a man can travel around the world in only three months?’
‘Eighty days to be exact,’ Phileas Fogg corrected him.
‘Eighty days?’ asked a surprised man at the table.
‘Well, maybe that’s ture, but only if you don’t consider bad weather, storms, shipwrecks, and other things,’ said another.
‘In eighty days, considering all possible events,’ continued Phileas Fogg.
‘Ah! You think so, do you, Mr Fogg?’ laughed Sir Ralph, ‘Well, I’ll bet four thousand pounds that a journey like that is impossible in such a short time.’
‘I repeat that it is possible to do the journey in that time,’ said Phileas Fogg, his eyes fixed on Sir Ralph’s smile.
‘Well, if you are so certain, then do it yourself!’
‘I will,’ replied Phileas Fogg.
‘When?’
‘Immediately. And I’ll bet not four, but twenty thousand pounds that I can go around the world in eighty days; I will return here in 1,920 hours, or, if you prefer, 115,220 minutes. Do you agree to the bet?’
They all looked at one another. They could not decide if he was serious. ‘We agree,’ they said.
‘Good. I’ll take the train for Dover at a quarter to nine this evening. The bet starts as from…’ Phileas Fogg took a small notebook and pencil from his pocket and made a note:
2 October, 8:45p.m.
‘And I will return here to the Reform Club at eight forty-five on Saturday 21 December. If I am not here by that time, this cheque for twenty thousand pounds is yours, gentlemen.’
And with these words he left the cheque for twenty thousand pounds on the table, picked up his hat and went out of the door.
At ten to eight his manservant was surprised to see his new employer come through the door. ‘Passepartout, we’re leaving in ten minutes. We’re taking a train to Dover,’ he said. ‘From there, a boat leaves for Calais at eleven o’clock tonight. We’re going to go around the world – in eighty days. We haven’t another second to lose.’
His employer did not seem to be in a hurry. The opposite in fact. He spoke a little quicker, but he behaved in the same calm way.
‘Around the world?’ said Passepartout to himself. ‘Well really!’ he thought, shaking his head. Just when he finally thought he had the perfect job. He wanted to work for Phileas Fogg because he was a gentleman who lived a quiet life, who always did the same things. And now? How could this be a quiet life?
‘Pack a small bag with just my night things in it, please, and pack one for yourself. We can buy everything else when we need it,’ added Phileas Fogg, and with these orders he left the room.
Passepartout continued to feel a little confused but he followed his master’s orders. He quickly packed their bags and at eight o’clock they were ready to leave the house. Phileas Fogg opened Passepartout’s bag and put twenty thousand pounds into it. He closed it tightly. Twenty minutes later they were at the station.
‘It must be the money for the journey,’ thought Passepartout as he sat on the train thinking nervously about the money in his bag. He did not want to lose the bag.
After being in the newspapers Phileas Fogg’s journey wasn’t a secret. Soon everybody in London was talking about Phileas Fogg’s departure and his plan to go around the world in eighty days. Some people thought he was mad, others said he was a genius. But a few days later, the front pages had another story. A certain Inspector Fix, a detective for Scotland Yard, said he knew the identity of the thief. All the evidence pointed in one direction: to a well-known and respectable member of the Reform Club – Mr Phileas Fogg.
