three,the play.two university friends come to visit hamlet.their names are rosencrantz and guild en stern.at first.
hamlet is very pleased to see them.but they ask alot of questions,and he becomes suspicious.why are you behave so strangely?what's the matter with you?
tell US what you are thinking about,we are your friends.I think the king has sent them.they are spying on me.I shall not tell them anything.
i cannot trust anyone except horatio.some travelling actors arrive at elsinore.hamlet loves the theatre and he greets them like old friends.welcome to elsinore.we have come to perform a play for the king and queen.
that gives me an idea horatio.I shall put some extra words in their play.I shall put the ghost's story on the stage.that night,claudius and gertrude watched the play.
there are three characters.the player king,the player queen and lucian US,the queen's lover.怎么着了？
I shall always love you.but if i die,you will marry again.no,never.
do you like the play mother?the lady speaks too much about love.all the court of Denmark watch the play.ophelia po lodi US horatio rosencrantz and guild en stern are all there.but nobody knows the secret of king hamlet's death.
except claudius and hamlet.on the stage,while the player king is sleeping.the murderer pours poison in his ear.hamlet watches claudius's face carefully.
this is the ghost's story.if claudius is afraid.I shall know he is guilty.suddenly,claudia stands up and runs out of the court.
everybody follows him.the actors do not know what the problem is.lights,lights stop the play.did you see that horatio the king is frightened.
the ghost's story is true?after the play,clari US feels very guilty,so he goes to pray in the chapel.hamlet finds him there.
I want god to forgive me for my brother's murder,perhaps if i pray he will help me.it would be easy for me to kill him now.but if I kill him while he is praying.his soul will go to heaven.
I want him to go to hell.I shall wait for another opportunity.i cannot repent.god doesn't listen to my words.it's good to see you again.
my friends.let me give you some advice for the play tonight.first of all,you shouldn't speak too loudly or too quietly.if the audience can't hear you.
they won't be pleased.but if you shout.they won't like it.secondly,you shouldn't move your hands too much.
but it's important to speak clearly,so the audience will understand you.next,remember to pay attention to the meaning of the words.last of all.
don't add any extra lines to the play and don't change the writer's words.i'll repeat all that because it's important.first of all,don't speak too loudly or too quietly.secondly.
don't move your hands too much.thirdly,you should speak clearly.next,you should pay attention to the meaning of the words.
finally,don't add any extra lines or change the words of the play.