five.suicide.polonius's son l ties returns to Denmark from Paris.he is very angry.claudius.
you have killed my father.I shall persuade the people to rebel against you,there will be a revolution.no lai ties hamlet is responsible for everything.but how did my father die? why is it a secret be patient?
when I have explained everything you will understand.I am your friend.ophelia comes to see lay ties.she loved hamlet,but he killed her father.
this has made her mad.she sings sad songs and gives flowers to everyone she meets.what is the matter with my sister?she has lost her mind poor girl.伊伊斯特雷蒂。
eis day.he will never come again.it's big was as white as snow.e is gone is gone.love.
remember me.do you see this?oh,god.a sailor brings the letter to horatio.
when he opens it,he discovers that it is from hamlet.horatio I am in Denmark.some pirates attacked our ship.while everybody was fighting.
I jumped onto their ship.i paid them and they brought me home to Denmark.rosencrantz and guild en stern have continued to england.I shall tell you more about them when I see you.meet me in the graveyard.
hamlet I shall go to him immediately.I am glad he is safe.glorious also receives a letter from hamlet.he has a private conversation with lai ties.but why didn't you put hamlet in prison?
he is very popular with the people. it was impossible to punish him.the best thing was to send him to england.he has killed my father and driven my sister out of her mind. I would do anything to get my revenge.this letter is from hamlet.he is back in Denmark.
I'm glad.I will kill him.I have a better plan.the queen comes in.I have bad news lettie s.
aphelia is dead.she wanted to put flowers on the willow tree.while she was climbing.she slipped and fell into the river.she floated there.
singing then.she drowned,was it?suicide.nobody knows.
perhaps it was an accident.oh,sweet felia.I hoped she would marry hamlet.come let US go and bury her.
now hamlet has killed my father and my sister.hamlet meets horatio in the graveyard.they see a gravedigger.he is preparing a new grave and he has uncovered some old bones.hamlet begins to talk about death.
look at this skull horatio.it is yor ix.he was the court jester.alas,poor yorick.
I knew him mo ratio.when I was a child,he carried me on his back.his jokes were the best.he cannot make anybody laugh now.
perhaps this skull belonged to a beautiful lady.she cannot paint her face now.perhaps this skull belonged to a lawyer.he cannot show how clever he is now.perhaps this girl.
belong to a court gentleman.he cannot wear elegant clothes now.there is a willow by the river.its silver leaves shine in the glassy water.aphelia walked there.
picking the flowers to hang on the graceful branches of the tree.but as she was climbing up to the sky.a thin branch broke under her small feet and she fell down into the weeping brook.her dress spread wide.and.
like a mermaid.she floated on the surface.singing old melodies.she was as happy as a creature of the water.but as her clothes grew heavy.
they pulled her down to the dark bottom of the river.to muddy death.