six the rest is silence.while he is standing in the graveyard,hamlet sees a procession approaching.it is ophelia's funeral.the queen throws flowers into the grave. and says sweets to the sweet.
hamlet did not know that ophelia was dead.he is shocked.he jumps into the grave and fights with lai ties.you killed my father and my sister.I loved ophelia more than forty thousand brothers.
lay yat tis wants his revenge.he and clari us decide how to kill hamlet.you must challenge hamlet to a fencing match.he loves this sport,he will certainly agree.
yes,and I shall put poison on the tip of my sword.if i cut him.he will die.and if this plan fails.
I shall give hamlet a poisoned drink.hamlet accepts the challenge.he does not know about the poisoned sword.to him,the fight is just sport something he enjoys.
I am sorry for your father's death lay ties.I accept your榻hamlet。now let's begin the fight.here is a drink for you hamlet if you're thirsty.good辣条。
I have bet six horses that you will win.hamlet fights well and scores the first points.the queen is very happy.she picks up the cup of poison claudius,tries to stop her drinking.
but it is too late.no good truth,do not drink.i drink to hamlet.ler t's wounds hamlet with the poisoned sword.
later in the confusion,they exchanged swords and hamlet wounds lerties AH.the poison enters their blood.suddenly the queen screams in pain hahaha laity's falls to the ground and hamlet begins to feel weak.the poison is working.
help me,I am dying we are all going to die the sword and the drink were poisoned.the king is to blame.then before i die,I shall have my revenge. this is for my father's murder.
追赞，追赞。hamlet is dying.polonius aphelia lair ties,gertrude and claudius are all dead.
it is time for a new beginning in Denmark.I shall kill myself too.no horatio,you must live.tell the truth to the world after I am dead.
tell my story.good night.sweet prince.and flights of angels sing thee to thy rest.frailty.
thy name is woman.something is rotten in the state of Denmark.and you?adju.adieu.
remember me.one May smile and smile.and be a villain.the play's the thing wherein i'll catch the conscience of the king.to be.
or not to be.that is the question.madness in great ones must not UN watch'd go.suit the action to the word,the word to the action.
my words fly up.my thoughts remain below.words without thoughts never to heaven go.how no war at.dead for a duck ET dead.
thou turn'st my eyes into my very soul.sweet ladies,good night.good night.alas.
poor yorick.I knew him horatio.there's a divinity that shapes our ends.the rest.is silence.