After being in the pool Alice and all the animals are wet and cold. 
'Why don't we organise a Callcus-Race? It's the best thing to do if you're cold,' says the Dodo. 
Alice asks: 'What's a Callcus-Race?' 
'I can tell you,' the Dodo replies, 'but the best thing is to do it.' 
First the Dodo marks a big circle on the ground and everybody must stand on different parts of the circle. There is no 'one, two, three, go', but they begin running when they like. They stop when they are tired. Only the Dodo knows when the race is finished. 
After half an hour they are all dry again and the Dodo shouts: 'The race is over!' The animals sit down in a circle and ask: 'Who's the winner?' 
The Dodo is not sure. He sits for a long time with his hand on his head. 
At last he says: 'Everybody is the winner and everybody must have a prize'. The Mouse and the other animals ask: 'Who's giving the prizes?' 
'She is,' answers the Dodo looking at Alice. 
'Prizes! Prizes!' they all cry. 
Alice doesn't know what to do. She puts her hand in her pocket and finds a small box of sweets in it. There is one sweet for each of the birds and animals. 
'But she must have a prize too,' says the Mouse. 
'Of course,' the Dodo replies, 'Do you have another prize in your pocket?' he asks. 'I only have the box,' says Alice. 
'Give it to me,' says the Dodo. 
He takes the box and offers it to Alice: 'Please take this beautiful box with our thanks.' 
They are all happy now. The animals start to eat the sweets. 
They make a lot of noise. The sweets are too small for the big birds and too big for the small birds. Then the sweets are over and everybody sits quietly again. 
Alice says, 'I miss Dinah!' 
'Who is Dinah?' asks the Parrot. 'Dinah is our cat. She's very good at catching mice and she eats birds too.' 
Everybody is quiet. One by one the birds run away. Alice is alone again. 
'Nobody likes Dinah down here but she's so dear to me!' Alice begins to cry. After a while she hears someone coming towards her. 
'Perhaps it's the Mouse,' she thinks.