The King and the Queen were sitting on the throne. The Knave of Hearts was standing in front of them. There were two soldiers near the Knave. It was the Knave of Hearts' trial.
'I must be in a courtroom. Here's the judge with his wig and gown and that's the jury,' thought Alice, Looking at the twelve animals and birds in the jury-box.
Alice sat down. When everybody was ready the King, who was the judge, said: 'Read the accusation!'
The White Rabbit read from a big roll of paper:
'The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts 
All on a summer day:
The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,
And took them all away!'
'Off with his head!' cried the Queen.
'But we must have some witness first!' cried the White Rabbit.
'Call the first witness!' said the King.
The first witness was the Hatter. He had his tea in one hand and bread and butter in the other hand.
'I am sorry about this but I was having my tea when they called me,' said the Hatter. 
'When did you begin your tea?' asked the King. 
'March the fourteenth, I think,' answered the Hatter. 
'The fifteenth,' said the March Hare. 
'The sixteenth,' added the Dormouse. 
'Write that down!' said the King, 'and take off your hat.' 
'It isn't mine,' said the Hatter. 
'You stole it, didn't you?' inquired the King. 
'No, your Majesty, I didn't,' replied the Hatter. He was very frightened. 
'I sell hats, you see. I'm a Hatter,' he said. 
'Let's continue now. What did you see?' asked the King. 
'Well, your Majesty, I was having my tea when the March Hare said ...' 
'I didn't!' protested the March Hare. 
'I mean ... the Dormouse said.' 
The Dormouse didn't protest. He was asleep, so the Hatter went on. 'Well, I cut more bread and butter.' 
'But what did the Dormouse say?' inquired the King. 
'I can't remember,' replied the Hatter. 
'You must remember or I'll cut off your head!' threatened the King. The Hatter was shaking with fear. 
'Please, your Majesty, I'm a poor man. Let me go!' cried the Hatter. 
'Cut off his head!' ordered the Queen. 
The Hatter ran away so quickly that the executioner couldn't catch him. 
Alice felt very strange. 'This courtroom seems so small. Perhaps I'm growing again!' Alice thought. 
'Next witness!' the King called out. 
The next witness was the Duchess' cook. When she entered the courtroom she had a pepper pot so everybody started to sneeze. 
'Tell us what you know,' said the King. 'Your Majesty, you must ask her questions,' said the White Rabbit. 
'That's right. Well, let's see, what are tarts made of?' asked the King. 
'Pepper, of course,' answered the cook. 
'Next witness!' said the King. 
The White Rabbit looked at his paper and read out the name: 
'ALICE!'