'It isn't the Mouse. It's the White Rabbit,' says Alice. 
'The Duchess! The Duchess! She'll be very angry! Oh where are they?' says the White Rabbit. He is looking for his gloves and fan. 
'I'll help him to find them,' thinks Alice. 
Alice looks around and sees that everything has changed. Now she is in the countryside.
'What are you doing here Mary Ann?' asks the White Rabbit angrily. The White Rabbit thinks Alice is his servant, Mary Ann. 
'Run home and bring me my white gloves and the fan! Quick!' says the White Rabbit. 
Alice runs to the White Rabbit's house. On the door she sees 'W. Rabbit', so she goes in. 
In a small room, at the top of the house, there is a table. On the table there are some gloves and a fan. Alice takes them; she notices a bottle near the door. She decides to try it. 
'When I eat or drink anything here,' she says to herself, 'something interesting always happens. Perhaps I'll grow again. I don't want to be small any more.' 
Alice drinks. She is growing very quickly. She puts her arm out of the window and her foot inside the fireplace. 'I'm glad there isn't a fire,' she thinks.
After drinking Alice is so big that she can't move. 
'Mary Ann! Mary Ann! Where are you? Where are my gloves?' the White Rabbit asks. 
He is in the garden. He is waiting for his gloves and fan. 
He tries to open the door of the room, but he can't move it because Alice's elbow is pressed against it. 
'Then I'll go and get in at the window,' he says. 
'Oh, no ... you won't!' Alice thinks. 
'Help! Help!' cries the White Rabbit. 
'What's that, Pat?' asks the White Rabbit. 
'It's an arm,' says Pat, the White Rabbit's gardener. Alice moves her arm. She can hear more cries and a lot of noise. 
'We must burn the house down!' says the White Rabbit. 
Alice shouts: 'If you burn the house down, I'll ask Dinah to catch you.' 
All the animals are silent. 
'What will they do next?' Alice asks herself. 
The animals take some stones and throw them at Alice. 
Quite suddenly all the stones become little cakes. 
'If I eat one of these cakes, I'll grow smaller,' thinks Alice, so she eats a cake. She grows smaller and runs out of the house into a wood. 
'Oh, I'm too small now. I must grow bigger again. How can I do it? I must eat or drink something, but the question is: What?' says Alice. 
Alice looks around. There are flowers and trees but nothing with 'EAT ME' or 'DRINK ME' on it. 
After a while Alice notices a big mushroom near her. She looks under it; she looks beside it, at the back of it. The mushroom is very big so she can't see over the top. Suddenly she realises she is looking into the eyes of a big blue Caterpillar that is sitting on the top, smoking a pipe.