The Persian knew Erik better than anyone else. He knew the whole story of the monster's sad life. He knew that Erik was not just a monster who frightened people because he was so ugly. He was also a very clever and sensitive man who suffered deeply.
One of the things that the Persian knew about Erik was the power of his voice. Erik was a great singer. He had a passionate love for music. He was also a talented architect.
Years before, the Persian had been a policeman in his own country. Erik had worked for the sultan there. He designed special buildings for the sultan —buildings with secret passages where the sultan could hide when he was afraid of his people. Erik also designed torture chambers for the sultan's wife. She was a cruel woman, and Erik's intelligent work amused her. The Persian did not like the kind of work that Erik did for the royal family, but he admired him and was sorry for him because he was so ugly. The sultan decided to kill Erik to stop him working for anyone else —and the Persian saved his life.
The Persian knew what happened to Erik when he left the sultan. Erik came to Paris. He used his skill as an architect to work on the Paris Opera House. It was easy for him to plan secret tunnels and passages all over the building and his own, very secret, house on the lake. The Persian watched the Opera House because he knew that Erik was dangerous.
When Erik first became involved with the young singer, the Persian was suspicious. He knew that Erik had taken the girl to his house. One day he waited for the monster near the lake.
'You're keeping Christine Daae a prisoner in your house, ' he had said . 'Free her, Erik! '
'A prisoner? 'Erik replied.
He laughed. 
'She's not my prisoner. She comes to my house when she wants –and she leaves when she wants. She loves me, don't you understand ? She loves me! '
The Persian did not believe this.
'I'll show you,' Erik told him proudly. ‘Wait here, my friend, and Christine will leave my house. Stay here, and she will come back alone. She'll come back because she wants to. I tell you, she loves me!”
The Persian agreed to wait an d see what happened. Christine came out of the house. He waited a long time, and then she came back to the house. He was astonished. Erik was telling the truth!