Chapter 9
Chapter nine. I was very ill for four weeks. The first day that I was strong enough to see anybody, Mr. Heathcliff came with gifts of meat and wine. He sat by my bedside for an hour and talked to me. I wanted to say to him, "Scoundrel. This is all your fault! If I had not passed that terrible night at your house, I would never have got ill like this." But I said nothing. I was grateful for his company.
I am feeling much better today. I think I will ask Mrs. Dean to come and sit by my bedside and finish her tale.
Miss Dean came. "Please continue with your story, Miss Dean," said I.
"This Cathy was engaged to Edgar Linton. Heathcliff had run away. What happened then?"
Mrs. Dean brought out her sewing and continued her narrative.
"That night Miss Catherine spent many hours walking in the rain on the moors looking for Heathcliff. She never found him. And when she came home, she was shivering with a fever. When Mr. and Mrs. Linton heard of her illness, they very kindly invited her to stay with them until she was healthy again. Unfortunately, both Mr. and Mrs. Linton caught a fever from her, and both died shortly afterwards.
Miss Catherine married Edgar Linton, and she and I moved to Thrushcross Grange. To my surprise, she behaved well there. She seemed to love Mr. Linton almost too much and was very affectionate to his sister. They did all they could to make her happy. I noticed that Mr. Linton was very much afraid of her anger. He talked to me once when I had given a sharp answer to one of her imperious orders.
'Nelly, for my sake, do not anger her. Nothing hurts me so much as to see her displeased.'
So, for my kind master's sake, I was gentle with my mistress, and for six months the gunpowder lay harmless because no fire came near to ignite it.
Sometimes Catherine was gloomy and sad, and her husband took great care of her and sympathized with her. He thought these fits of sadness were a result of her illness.
She had never been subject to depression of spirits before. When she felt better and smiled again, so did he.
But their happiness did not last long. One mild evening in September, I was coming in from the garden with a heavy basket of apples.
It was dusk, and the moon was rising, causing shadows to lurk in the corners. I put the basket down on the step by the kitchen door and sat down beside it to rest and breathe the soft, sweet air.
'Nelly, is that you?' whispered a deep voice from the darkness. Then in the shadows, I saw a tall man in dark clothes with dark skin and hair. I didn't recognize him at first, but when he stepped forward into the light, I saw his eyes. I recognized his eyes.
'Are they at home, Nelly?' he asked. 'Where is she? I must speak with her. Go and tell her a person from the village wants to speak to her.'
'How will she take it?' I exclaimed. 'What will she do? The surprise will drive her mad. You are Heathcliff! But different, changed. What have you been doing all these years?'
'Go and give her my message. I'm in hell until you do.'
I went into the drawing room where Mr. and Mrs. Linton were sitting so peacefully. I felt reluctant to deliver the message. After lighting the candles, I muttered:
'There is a person from the village who wishes to see you, madam.'
When she had left the room, Mr. Edgar asked me who it was, and I told him.
'What?' said he. 'The gypsy, the plough boy?'
'You should not call him by those names, master!' I said. 'She would be hurt if she hurt you.'
He opened the window and called down, 'Bring the person in, my dear.'
In a few moments, Cathy ran into the room. Her face blushed with excitement. Heathcliff followed her in. Now that I saw him properly in the light, the change was even more apparent than before. He had grown into a tall, strong man. My master looked a slender youth beside him. The way Heathcliff stood and walked, so straight and proud, suggested that he had been in the army. His face looked intelligent and refined, there was no sign of his former degradation. But there was something ferocious about it still. The eyes were still full of a black fire.
My master's surprise equaled or exceeded my own. He stood confused for a moment, unsure how to address 'the plough boy' as he had called him.
'Sit down, sir,' he said after a while.
Heathcliff sat opposite Catherine. She never took her eyes off him. It was as if she were afraid that he might vanish again if she did. He did not look at her often, a quick glance now and then. But each time his glance drank the light from hers, and he looked more confidently. They were too absorbed in their own pleasure to think of anyone else. Edgar watched them with a pale face.
At one point, Cathy jumped up and grasped Heathcliff's hands, laughing.
'I shall think it is a dream tomorrow,' she said. 'I can't believe I have seen, touched, and spoken to you once more. And yet, cruel Heathcliff, you don't deserve this welcome. You stayed away three years and never thought of me.'
'I heard of your marriage, Cathy, and so I thought I would come back one more time. I would have a glimpse of your face. You would look surprised and pretend to look pleased, then I would go and kill Hindley. I would get my revenge at last, and then I would kill myself before the law did so. That was my plan. But now that you have welcomed me so warmly, I have changed my mind. I will not go away again! I've had a hard life since you last saw me, and I struggled only for you.'
'Come, come, the tea is getting cold,' said Edgar, trying to speak in his normal voice.
Miss Isabella came in, and Catherine poured out the tea.
I don't know what was said at the meal because I withdrew to the kitchen. An hour later, Heathcliff left.
'Are you staying in the village?' I asked him at the door.
'No,' he said, 'I'm staying at Wuthering Heights. Mr. Earnshaw invited me when I called upon him this morning.'
I was very surprised to hear this and began to think that it would have been better for everyone had Heathcliff stayed away.