Chapter 1
Wuthering Heights. Chapter one. Eighteen o one. I have just returned from a visit to my landlord, who is my only neighbor. This is certainly a beautiful place in all England. There's nowhere so completely removed from the stir of society. It is a misanthropist's heaven, and Mr. Heathcliff and I are a suitable pair to divide his desolation between us. A fine fellow.
His black eyes looked at me suspiciously, and he did not offer to shake my hand. I'm interested to meet a man who seemed even more reserved than I am. "Mr. Heathcliff, I'm Mr. Lockwood, your new tenant at Thrushcross Grange."
"Come in," he replied reluctantly, as if he really wanted to say "go to the devil." As I followed him into the house, he called out, "Joseph, take Mr. Lockwood's horse and then bring us some wine." So I thought, this Joseph is the only servant in the house. No wonder the grass is growing between the paving stones, with no one to cut it about the cost. Mr. Heathcliff's house is called Wuthering Heights.
It is a sturdy stone house, with a narrow window set deep in the walls. "Wuthering" is an adjective used only by the people of this region, meaning windy or stormy, and indeed the house is built on the top of a hill, completely exposed to the north wind.
The few stunted trees and the thorn bushes around it all swayed in one direction. All around the door of Wuthering Heights are grotesque carvings, and over the door the date "fifteen hundred" and the name "Hareton Earnshaw" are inscribed.
I wanted to ask Mr. Heathcliff to tell me the history of the place, but he seemed so very unfriendly that I decided against it.
The door opens straight into the sitting room. At one end of the room is a large oak dresser, its shelves crowded with pewter dishes and silver tankards. Legs of beef, ham, and mutton hung from the wooden beams of the ceiling. A fireplace. Various guns are attached to the wall as ornaments. The floor is of a smooth white stone, and the hard wooden chairs are painted either green or black. In one corner, a female hunting dog lay surrounded by her puppies, and other dogs lurked in the shadows.
Mr. Heathcliff himself looks like a dark-skinned gypsy, with the dress and the manners of a gentleman. A little untidy, perhaps, but with a tall, handsome figure. Some people might think him proud, but I think he has a reserve like mine. It's probably the result of an aversion to displays of feeling.
He will love and hate in secret, and be almost angry if anyone loves or hates him in return.
No, perhaps I'm assuming too much. Perhaps the reason for Mr. Heathcliff's reserve is different from my own. Let us hope that there is no one else quite like me. My dear mother used to say that I would never have a comfortable home. And only last summer I proved myself perfectly unworthy of one.
Well, enjoying a month of fine weather at the seacoast, I met a fascinating young lady and fell in love with her. I never told her that I loved her, but I suppose she guessed it from the way I looked at her. She began to look lovingly at me. And what did I do? I confess with shame that I became cold and distant. I retired into my shell like a snail.
The young lady thought that she had made a terrible mistake. She was confused and embarrassed, so she left the place immediately. Behavior such as this has given me a reputation for heartlessness, but I am not heartless. I took a seat by Mr. Heathcliff's fireplace. He sat opposite me. I tried to stroke the hunting dog, but she growled at me.
"You had better leave the dog alone," drawled Mr. Heathcliff. Then he went to the cellar in search of Joseph, leaving me surrounded by his ill-tempered dogs, who watched my every movement.
Anxious not to be beaten, I kept still, but to vent my feelings, I whispered, "Keep away, you severe curse!" This provoked attack, for the dogs leaped on me at once, snarling and baring their teeth. I snatched up the poker to defend myself and cried out for help. Mr. Heathcliff and Joseph appeared at the door but made no effort to save me.
Fortunately, a big strong woman from the kitchen rushed to my aid. She shouted at the dogs and hit them with a frying pan until they let go of me.
"What the devil is the matter?" asked Mr. Heathcliff.
"What the devil indeed," I replied. "You should not leave a stranger alone with those dogs, sir. They are as savage as tigers."
"They're hunting dogs, not pets. Have a glass of wine."
"No, thank you."
"Did they bite you?"
"If they had, I would have killed them."
Mr. Heathcliff grinned. "Come, come," he said. "Calm down, Mr. Lockwood. Here, take a little wine. Guests are so rare in this house that my dog and I don't know how to receive them. Your health, sir."
I raised my glass to his and replied, "And yours."
It would have been foolish to take offense at the behavior of dogs. Besides, Mr. Heathcliff was amused by my distress, and I did not want to give him any more amusement. Mr. Heathcliff relaxed a little and began to tell me about the advantages and disadvantages of Thrushcross Grange. I enjoyed my conversation with him and offered to visit again tomorrow. He did not seem to like the idea, but I will go anyway. He makes me feel like a sociable man compared with him.