Chapter 12
Two months passed. Mr. Edgar constantly cared for Catherine, and gradually she began to get better. This was a double blessing because we now discovered she was expecting a baby. Isabella had sent a short note to Edgar saying that she was married to Heathcliff. The note seemed cold and unfeeling, but beneath the signature some more was scribbled in pencil.
She was sorry, she said, to have caused her brother pain. She hoped that he remembered her kindly and that they could be reconciled. Linton did not reply to the note. Two weeks later I received a letter from her. I have the letter here. I'll read it to you.
"Dear Ellen, I arrived at Wuthering Heights last night. Since Edgar did not reply to my note, I am writing to you. Please tell him that I would give anything to see his face again. My heart turned to Thrushcross Grange twenty-four hours after I had left it. I miss my old house so much. And I miss Edgar and Catherine. I cannot come to see them even though I want to more than anything.
Ellen, tell me how did you keep from going mad when you lived here at Wuthering Heights? The people here all seem inhuman. And tell me: is Mr. Heathcliff a man? If so, is he mad? If not, is he a devil? I will not tell you the reasons I asked these questions, but please answer them. Please explain, if you can, what I have married! Come and see me, Ellen, very soon! Don't disappoint me. Isabella."
I told my master about the letter. He said I should go to Wuthering Heights, but that he could not see Isabella or write to her. I set out the next day and walked to Wuthering Heights. The house was sadly changed since my time there. The pewter dishes and silver tankards in the sitting room were covered with dust. Isabella looked lost and rather bedraggled. Hindley seemed on the verge of madness. Hareton was like a little animal. Only Heathcliff looked well, only he had the look of a born gentleman.
"Tell me about Catherine," said Heathcliff. "I hear she has been ill." "Mrs. Linton is just recovering," said I. "She will never be as she was, but at least she is alive. Her appearance and her character have both changed greatly. Mr. Linton will stay by her, for he is her husband, but now his affection can only be a result of remembering what she once was, of common humanity and a sense of duty." "That's quite possible," said Heathcliff, trying to keep calm.
"It is possible that your master might feel nothing for Catherine but common humanity and a sense of duty. But I will not abandon her to his duty and humanity. Promise me that you will help me to see her. I'll see her anyway, with or without your help." "Mr. Heathcliff, you mustn't see her, and you never will with my help. Another argument between you and my master will kill her."
"If you help me, I can see her without his knowledge," he said. "If he died, would Catherine suffer greatly from his loss? The fear that she would is the only thing that stops me from killing him. I would never do anything to hurt her." "And yet," said I, "you are planning to go and see her now, when she has nearly forgotten you, even though that might make her ill again." "You think she has nearly forgotten me?" he said. "Oh, Nelly, you know she has not. You know as well as I do that she thinks of me much more than she thinks of Linton. If I believed that she had forgotten me, my life would be hell."
"Catherine and Edgar love each other!" cried Isabella, suddenly furious. "You have no right to talk like that." "What do you know about love?" said Heathcliff scornfully. "You thought you loved me, and you were fool enough to think I might love you. But you know nothing about it. For you I was a kind of a hero of romance. You must have been mad to think so! And, Nelly, how hard it was to persuade her to hate me! I hung her little dog before we left the Grange, and I said I wished I could hang everyone in that house except for one. She, like a fool, thought I meant her.
And thinking herself safe, she did not find my brutality disgusting. But I have managed it at last. This morning she told me that she hates me. She can leave me if she wants to. I used to enjoy tormenting her, but now she simply bores and irritates me."
"Mr. Heathcliff," said I, "this is the talk of a madman. Since you now say that she can leave, I am sure she will." "He says I can leave," cried Isabella, with glittering eyes. "But he said that before, and I tried to leave, and I dare not try again.
He has told me that he married me solely to gain power over Edgar. But I won't let him gain power over Edgar! I'll die first! Nelly, you must promise not to repeat this conversation to Edgar or Catherine." "Enough!" cried Heathcliff. "Go to your room. I want to talk to Ellen alone." When Isabella had left the room, Heathcliff said:
"Last night I was in the Grange garden for six hours, Nelly, and I'll return there tonight and every night, until I find an opportunity of entering. If I meet Mr. Linton, I will knock him down. If he sends his servants to throw me out, I will threaten them with these pistols.
Wouldn't it be better, Nelly, to prevent my coming in contact with your master or his servants?" "I won't do it, Mr. Heathcliff. My mistress is nervous and anxious. The shock of seeing you would be too much for her. It will kill her, I'm sure. Give up this plan, for her sake. If you won't, I will tell my master, and he will make sure that you never get in the house." "You won't get home tonight to tell him, Ellen Dean," cried Heathcliff. "I'll keep you here until I have seen her. You say the shock of seeing me will kill her. I don't want to shock her. You will ask her if I may come. You think she has forgotten me because she never speaks of me. But how can she speak of me when everyone in the house is a spy for her husband?
It must be like hell for her in that house. You say that she is nervous and anxious. How the devil could it be otherwise in her terrible isolation?
With that weak, insipid creature watching over her out of a sense of duty and humanity, he might as well plant an oak tree in a flower pot and expect it to grow.
How can she regain her health in the shallow soil of his love? You must decide now, Nelly. Will you stay here while I go to the Grange and find my way into her room, or will you be my friend, as you have been in the past?"
Well, Mr. Lockwood, I argued, and refused to help him fifty times, but in the end he won. I agreed to carry the letter to my mistress. If she agreed to see Heathcliff, I would inform him of Linton's next absence from the house. Then he would come to see her. Was it right or wrong? I fear it was wrong at the time. I hoped to prevent another explosion. The doctor is coming to see you now, Mr. Lockwood. I will finish my story another time. So saying, Mrs. Dean left the room. And what a dismal story it is.
But never mind, perhaps I can extract good medicine from Mrs. Dean's bitter herbs. Perhaps it will teach me to be careful of the fascination of Catherine Heathcliff's brilliant eyes.
What if I fell in love with her? And she turned out to be a second edition of her mother.