Chapter 7
Chapter seven. On the morning of a fine June day, the last of the Earnshaw family was born, and I was his nurse. His mother died in childbirth.
She had been ill with tuberculosis for a long time. But he was the finest, healthiest, handsomest baby I had ever seen. I took care of the child as if he were my own. No one interfered with me.
Hindley was satisfied just to see that he was healthy. He had never had any love in his heart for anyone except himself and his wife.
Now she was gone, and he spent his time drinking and cursing. He was so offensive that soon all the other servants left except for Joseph and me. I did not want to leave the baby, and Joseph was always content to be where there was plenty of evil to reprove.
Hindley's treatment of Heathcliff was enough to turn a saint into a devil, and I believe there was something diabolical about Heathcliff at that time. He enjoyed watching Hindley degrade himself. The house was like hell.
The curate stopped coming to visit. Nobody decent came near Wuthering Heights except Edgar Linton, who came to visit Cathy.
At fifteen years old, she was the queen of the countryside, the most beautiful girl around. But she had become proud and bad-tempered. I admit I did not like her at that time. She still liked me, though, she was always loyal to her old friends. And young Linton, despite his superiority, found it difficult to make an equally deep impression on her.
"Do you see that portrait over the fireplace? That was Edgar Linton, my late master. He used to hang on one side, and his wife's portrait hung on the other side. But hers has been removed."
Mrs. Dean raised her candle and went to the fireplace.
The delicate features of Edgar Linton's portrait were very much like those of the young lady at Wuthering Heights, but his expression was gentle and thoughtful, very different from hers. His light hair was long and curly. His eyes were large and serious. His features were almost too graceful. I was not surprised that Catherine Earnshaw could forget her first friend for a man like this. More surprising was that he, if his mind were as noble and delicate as his person, could fall in love with the kind of woman I imagined her to be.
Mrs. Dean sat down and began her story again.
Catherine continued her friendship with the Lintons and began to live a double life. She did not show her wild side to them. She was polite and friendly to Mr. and Mrs. Linton.
She won the admiration of Isabella and the heart and soul of Edgar. This pleased her very well, so she was very ambitious. At Thrushcross Grange, where she had heard Heathcliff described as a vulgar ruffian and worse than an animal, she was careful not to act like him. But at home, she did not bother to be polite or to restrain her wild nature.
Mr. Edgar did not dare come to Wuthering Heights often; he was afraid of Hindley's drunken rages. Catherine was not sorry. She did not like to see her two friends together. If, when Linton was absent, Heathcliff expressed contempt for him, Catherine could seem to agree. Similarly, if Linton showed disgust for Heathcliff in Heathcliff's absence, she could pretend to be indifferent.
She could use neither of these tricks when both were present. One day Hindley was away, so Heathcliff decided to take a day off work. He asked Cathy to spend the day with them, but she said she was expecting Edgar Linton. Heathcliff went off on his own, feeling angry, hurt, and jealous.
When Edgar Linton arrived, Cathy told me to leave the room. I was polishing the silver.
"You can go now, Nelly," she said, in that imperious way of hers.
Now the master had told me to stay with them whenever Edgar Linton came to visit, so I replied, "I will just finish polishing the silver."
"Miss Cathy, I'm sure Mr. Linton does not mind."
She came up to me, and supposing that Edgar could not see her, she pinched my arm. It really hurt a lot, and I was determined that Mr. Linton should notice it.
"Oh, miss," I cried, "why did you pinch me?"
"I didn't touch you. You lying creature," said Catherine, and she tried to pinch me again, her face red with rage.
"Yes, you did, miss. Here." And I showed the purple mark on my arm so that Mr. Linton could see it.
She slapped my face so hard that my eyes filled with water.
"Catherine, love, Catherine," cried Linton, shocked by her behavior.
"Leave the room," said Catherine, trembling all over.
Little Hareton, who followed me everywhere, was in the room, and when he saw her slap me, he began to cry. Now she grabbed his shoulders and shook him violently. I tried to free the child from her grasp, so she slapped him across the cheek as well. I took little Hareton and went off to the kitchen.
But I left the door open so that I could see what happened.
Edgar turned pale and picked up his hat. I thought, "That's right, you've seen her true character now. Take warning and go."
"Where are you going?" asked Catherine. "You must not go."
"I must and shall," said Edgar.
Catherine dropped onto her knees by a chair and burst into tears as Edgar left the sitting room. But once outside the front door, he hesitated. I called encouragement to him from the kitchen window.
"You had better go home, sir. Miss has a very bad temper indeed."
He turned abruptly and ran back into the sitting room.
When I went into the sitting room to tell them that Hindley was coming home drunk, I saw that a quarrel had only served to make them closer. It was clear that they were no longer merely friends; they were lovers.