Chapter 14
One week later I was in the sitting room with Catherine's baby girl. It was a stormy evening. The wind blew and the rain changed gradually to snow.
My master was asleep upstairs. He had spent most of the week up there with his sorrow. Suddenly the door opened and Isabella ran in, soaking wet and laughing like a mad woman. There was a bleeding cut below her ear. She wore no coat or hat, and her dress was wet with rain and snow.
"Nelly!" she cried, "I have run away! I have left a monster! Call me a carriage so that I can go to the village! I dare not stay here. As soon as he knows that I am gone, he will come here after me."
"Miss Isabella, I will call no carriage until you have calmed down and changed into dry clothes. What on earth has happened?" "All week Heathcliff has stayed away from the house, returning late at night and shutting himself in his room. Hindley has been drinking more and more. He got a gun and a knife. He told me he was going to kill Heathcliff. He says that Heathcliff has robbed him, and Hareton, and me too, that he has stolen all we have. He said that Heathcliff now owns Wuthering Heights. He lent Hindley so much money for gambling and drink, and now the house belongs to him. Yet I could not stand by and watch Hindley shoot him. When Heathcliff returned, I opened a window and warned him that Hindley had weapons and would kill him. Heathcliff forced his way into the house and tore the weapons from Hindley's hands, wounding him with a knife. And he did so. I rushed to Hindley to nurse his bleeding hand, and I said to Heathcliff, 'Oh, why did you come back to the house? Why don't you just lie down on Catherine's grave like a faithful dog?' Heathcliff threw the knife at me and it cut me just below the ear. I turned and left the room. He probably thinks I went to my own room and locked myself in, but instead I ran from the house. And I swear I would never sleep another night at Wuthering Heights."
I gave her dry clothes and a coat and a hat. I made hot tea for her and called a carriage. Within an hour she left for the village, and the next morning she went on towards London. She never came back to this neighborhood again, but she wrote letters to her brother gradually. From these we learned that she had given birth to a son a few months after she left Wuthering Heights. She said he was a sickly, peevish child, always ill, always crying.
She christened him Linton Heathcliff. Someone told Heathcliff about the child, and when I met him by chance in the village, he asked me what name they had given him. When I told him he smiled bitterly, and asked if they wanted him to hate the child too. "But I will have him when I want him, they can be sure of that." My master lived a very quiet life after Catherine's death. He hardly ever left Thrushcross Grange. Now gradually his grief subsided. He was sure that Catherine was in heaven, and he remembered her with a tender love. His affectionate nature turned to his little daughter, who was christened Catherine in memory of her mother.
Six months after Catherine died, Hindley died too. He got very drunk and locked himself in his room. The next morning Heathcliff and Joseph heard him moaning. Heathcliff sent Joseph to fetch the doctor, but by the time they returned Hindley was dead. Joseph was very upset. He told me he wished he had stayed and let Heathcliff go for the doctor.
"I should have stayed with the master," Joseph said. "If he was going to die, he should have died with a faithful servant by him."
But he wasn't dead when I left, far from it. After the funeral, Heathcliff said to Hareton, "Now you're mine, and I'll be as kind to you as your father was to me."
"That boy should go back to Thrushcross Grange with me," I said. "Does Linton say so?" asked Heathcliff, frowning. "Yes, he told me to bring the boy home." "But I want a boy to stay with me," said Heathcliff, "and if Linton takes him, I will want my own son to come and take his place."
That stopped any plans to bring Hareton to Thrushcross Grange. There was nothing we could do for him. The family lawyer told Edgar that Hareton was left a beggar. His father had died penniless, and his only chance in life was to gain Heathcliff's affection. So Hareton was now completely dependent upon his father's enemy.
Heathcliff treated him like a servant, though he paid him no wages. The guest was now the master at Wuthering Heights.