Chapter 5
Chapter five. As Mr. Earnshaw grew old and weak, Joseph gained more and more influence over him. He spoke to him about salvation and his soul. He spoke about the necessity of ruling his children rigidly. He criticized Hindley and Catherine, though he was careful not to anger him.
He had no reason to criticize Heathcliff. Finally, the master was persuaded to send Hindley away to school. I thought then there might be some peace in the house. But Catherine was still at home, and she was a wild one. From the moment she came downstairs in the morning to the moment she went to bed at night, she caused problems. She was always talking, singing, and laughing and teasing everyone who would not do the same. She ridiculed Joseph's religious speeches. She slapped me and told me what to do. She tormented her father by showing him how much more power she had over Heathcliff than he had. She was much too fond of Heathcliff, and the worst punishment we could give her was to keep her separate from him. Yes, she was a wild, troublesome girl. But she had the prettiest eyes and the sweetest smile I ever saw.
One evening, when the wind was howling, we all sat by the fire.
Joseph was reading his Bible. I was sewing. Miss Cathy had been ill, so she was quieter than usual and leaned against her father's knee. Heathcliff lay on the floor with his head on her lap, I remember.
The master said, before we fell asleep, "Why can't you always be a good girl, Kathy?"
She looked up at him and laughed and said, "Why can't you always be a good man, father?" But when she saw she had offended him, she kissed his hand and said she would sing him to sleep. She sang very quietly until his head sank in his breast.
We all sat silent for half an hour, not wishing to wake him. Then Joseph rose and said he must wake the master. It was time for prayers and bed. Joseph called him, but the master did not stir.
Then Joseph told the children to go up to bed immediately, and I realized that something was wrong.
"I shall just kiss father good night first," said Kathy, and she put her arms around his neck. Before we could stop her, the poor child screamed out, "Oh, he's dead! Heathcliff, he's dead!"
They both started to cry, and I did too. But Joseph asked what there was to cry about, when the master's soul had gone straight to heaven.
Hindley came home for the funeral. He was master now. Most to everyone's surprise, he brought a wife with them. Her name was Frances. She never told us where she was born or who her people were. She probably had no money at home. Why else would he have kept his marriage secret from his father?
She acted very strangely while the funeral was going on. She trembled and wept, and when at last I asked her what was the matter, she said she was afraid of dying. I thought that was ridiculous. She was a bit thin, but young, with a fresh complexion and eyes that sparkled like diamonds. I noticed that she had trouble breathing when she climbed the stairs, and that she was nervous, and that she coughed a lot, but I did not know then what these symptoms meant.
Hindley had changed a lot in the three years of his absence.
On the day he returned, he told Joseph that the servants must stay in the kitchen from now on. We could no longer sit by the fire with the family as we used to do. Sometimes he got angry with Heathcliff and said that he too would have to eat in the kitchen with the servants. Well, when the old master had been alive, Heathcliff had been educated like the other children. But now Hindley stopped Heathcliff's lessons and said he must work outdoors on the farm.
At first, Heathcliff did not mind too much, because Cathy taught him what she learned in her lessons, and she worked or played with him in the field. Cathy and Heathcliff were growing up like a pair of young savages.
Hindley did not care what they did or how they behaved, so long as they stayed away from him.
They loved to run away to the moors together in the morning and remained there all day. They were punished for doing this. Joseph made Catherine learn passages from the Bible and thrashed Heathcliff until his arm ached.
But these punishments were mere things to laugh at while they were away and free on the moors. One evening, Hindley sent them out of the sitting room for making too much noise. When bedtime came, we could not find them anywhere.
Hindley was furious and told us to lock the house. No one, he said, was to let them in if they returned. Joseph followed his orders, but I stayed up by the open window, listening for them, determined to let them in. It was raining outside; the poor things would be soaking wet. After a while, I heard footsteps on the road and saw a lantern. I ran to the door and let him in, but Heathcliff was there alone.
"Where's Miss Catherine?" I asked.
"At Thrushcross Grange," he said. "And I would be there too, but they did not invite me to stay. You see, Nelly, when Cathy and I ran away this evening, we saw the lights of Thrushcross Grange, and we wanted to see how the Lintons passed their Sunday evenings. We ran all the way from the Heights to the park without stopping. Cathy lost the race because she was barefoot. When we got to the Grange, we looked in through the drawing room window. It was beautiful. Inside there was a red carpet and red chairs and a white ceiling with a gold border. From the middle of the ceiling hung a shower of glass drops, shimmering with the little candles. Mr. and Mrs. Linton weren't there. Edgar and his sister had it all to themselves. Shouldn't they have been happy? We would have thought ourselves in heaven.
But guess what they were doing? Isabella lay screaming at one end of the room, and Edgar stood weeping at the other. In the middle, a little dog was whimpering and licking his paw. They had been fighting over it and had nearly torn it in two. The idiots! How we laughed at them."
"But you still have not told me," I said, "how Cathy was left behind."
"Well, Edgar and Isabella heard us laughing, and they cried out, 'Oh, Mamma! Oh, Papa!' Cathy and I decided to run away, but as we were running, she fell. They had left the dogs loose, and one of them had Cathy's ankle in his teeth.
'Run, Heathcliff,' she whispered. She was not crying at all, even though it must have been very painful.
I tried to open the dog's mouth to free Cathy's ankle. Just then the servants ran up. They took us to the house. Mr. and Mrs. Linton were horrified at the sight of us.
They said I looked like a gypsy, and that no doubt we were thieves. Then Edgar Linton recognized Cathy.
'Why, it is Miss Earnshaw,' he said.
'Nonsense!' cried Miss Linton. 'Why would Miss Earnshaw be running around the moor barefoot with a gypsy?'
But finally she believed it, and then she felt sorry that her dog had made Cathy's ankle bleed, and she called a doctor and said Cathy must stay as her guest. But they had not the good manners to invite me to stay with her."