Chapter 17
On the fifth day Zillah unlocked the door. She was surprised to find me there and said that everyone in the village thought that Catherine and I had got lost on the moor. I asked her where Catherine was, but she said she knew nothing. Mr. Heathcliff, she said, was out.
Downstairs I found young Linton in the sitting room. "Where is Miss Catherine?" I demanded. "She is upstairs, locked in her room," said Linton. "Yesterday she was allowed downstairs, but she cried and screamed so much that we had to lock her up again. She gives me a headache. Father says that she hates me. She wants me to die. And she is my wife now, so it is shameful that she should hate me." "Do you know where the key is?" "Yes, but I won't tell you where it is! I won't let her run away to Thrushcross Grange! I am her husband now. She should love me more than she loves her father, even if he is dying."
"What!" I cried. "Is my master dying?" "The doctors say so," said Linton. I thought it best to leave Wuthering Heights before Heathcliff returned. Then I could send a group of men from the Grange to rescue my young lady. When I arrived at Thrushcross Grange, I ran straight to my master's room.
How changed he was! Even in those few days he was very pale and thin. I told him that Heathcliff had forced us to stay at Wuthering Heights, and that Catherine was now married to Linton. I did not tell him the worst details, because I did not want to distress him more than necessary.
That evening Catherine came to Thrushcross Grange. She had persuaded Linton to unlock her door and had run all the way from Wuthering Heights. By the time she arrived, however, her father was very weak indeed. He gazed at her with loving eyes and said that he was going to join her mother.
He died peacefully a few hours later. The next day my master was buried beside his wife in the churchyard on the moor. The following evening Heathcliff came to Thrushcross Grange. He walked in without knocking at the door. He was the master now. "I have come to take young Catherine home," he said. "There will be no more running away. She is Linton's wife and she belongs at his side."
"Why not let Catherine and Linton live here?" I asked. "I am seeking a tenant for the Grange," said Heathcliff. "Besides, I want my children to live with me. Get ready, Catherine. Go home to your husband."
"I will," said Catherine. "Linton is all I have to love in the world now, and you cannot make us hate each other. I know he has a bad nature. But I forgive him. I know he loves me, and therefore I will love him. Mr. Heathcliff, you have nobody to love you. However miserable you make us, we will have the comfort of knowing that you are more miserable still. You are miserable, are you not?
Lonely like the devil, and envious like him! Nobody loves you. Nobody will cry when you die. I wouldn't be you." She ran upstairs to pack her things. Heathcliff stood by the fire, looking at the portraits of my master and mistress.
"I will take her portrait back to Wuthering Heights," he said. "I don't need it, but –" He turned away from the fire with a strange smile on his face. "I will tell you what I did yesterday. I asked the man who was digging Edgar Linton's grave to remove the earth of her coffin lid and I opened it. When I saw her face, it is still her face. I thought I would stay there forever, but the man told me that the air would damage her face, so I covered her up again. But then I removed one side of her coffin.
Not the side next to Linton, damn him! I paid the man some money and he agreed to bury me beside her, on the side where her coffin is open, and to leave the side of my coffin open too, so that by the time Edgar Linton gets to us he won't know which is which."
"You are very wicked, Mr. Heathcliff," I cried. "Were you not ashamed to disturb the dead?" "I have not disturbed her. She disturbs me. I have a strange faith in ghosts. I am convinced that they can and do exist among us.
Every night for eighteen years she has disturbed me, until last night. Last night I dreamed that I was tranquil, lying dead beside her with my cheek frozen against hers. The first time she came to me was the night after she was buried. I went to the graveyard. It was snowing. I dug down to her coffin in a rage, filled with the desire to have her in my arms again. But just as I was pulling at that coffin lid, I heard a sigh from the edge of the grave, and I knew that her spirit was there.
Not below me, but on the earth. I felt consoled at once and I stopped tearing at the coffin lid. I climbed out of the grave and filled it in with the earth. Since then I have often felt her presence, but I have never seen her. It is an intolerable torture to know she is near, but not to see her. She has been a devil to me these eighteen years, killing me slowly, torturing me to death." Mr. Heathcliff fell silent and wiped the sweat from his forehead. Then I heard my young lady coming down the stairs with her bags.
"Goodbye, Ellen," she said and kissed my cheek. Her lips felt as cold as ice. "Come and see me soon!" "Mrs. Dean cannot come to see you," said Heathcliff sternly. "She will be busy here taking care of my tenant.
Do not come to Wuthering Heights, Ellen. If I want to talk to you, I will come here." Then he let Catherine out of the house and off to Wuthering Heights. I have not seen my young lady since that day. All I knew of life at Wuthering Heights is what Zillah tells me when I meet her in the village.
Zillah told me that the morning after she came to the house, Catherine asked Heathcliff to send for the doctor because Linton was dying. Heathcliff said he did not care and would not spend money on doctors for Linton.
Catherine nursed Linton alone. Heathcliff had told Zillah not to interfere, and Zillah, being a selfish, stupid woman, obeyed him. Catherine was up day and night with her dying husband. Sometimes Zillah saw her sitting on the stairs at night, weeping. But she never tried to comfort my poor young lady. Her master had told her not to interfere, and she obeyed her master's orders.
Finally, young Linton died. Catherine was ill for two weeks after his death. When she recovered, Heathcliff showed her Linton's will. Linton had left everything to his father. Heathcliff must have forced him to write that will.
Catherine was left penniless, completely dependent upon her father-in-law.
Thus ended Mrs. Dean's story.