Chapter 10
Chapter ten. Hindley invited Heathcliff to remain at Wuthering Heights permanently as his tenant. Heathcliff now had plenty of money, and he would pay a good rent. Hindley needed money, because he drank and gambled away all he had. Heathcliff apparently lent money to Hindley to pay off his gambling debts.
I learned all this from late night conversations with Catherine. She loved to talk about Heathcliff, and if she talked about him to Edgar, Edgar looked hurt and sad.
Heathcliff was a frequent visitor at Thrushcross Grange. Mr. Linton did not like these visits, but he tolerated them for his wife's sake.
After a while, however, it became apparent that Miss Isabella was infatuated with Heathcliff. She became bad-tempered and moody, pale and thin. One day she lost her temper with Cathy.
"You are harsh and unkind to me, Cathy," she cried.
"Don't be silly, Isabella. When have I ever been harsh or unkind to you?"
"Yesterday on our walk on the moor, you told me to walk off on my own because you wanted Heathcliff all to yourself."
"Nonsense! I thought our conversation might bore you. That was all."
"I didn't care about the conversation. I just wanted to be close to—"
"Well," said Catherine, suddenly understanding. "You're always sending me away. You want no one to be loved except yourself."
"I love him more than you ever loved Edgar, and he might love me if you would let him."
"I wouldn't be you for a kingdom," then declared Catherine emphatically, and she seemed to speak sincerely.
"Nelly. Help me to convince her of her madness. Tell her what Heathcliff is: a savage creature. You only think you love him because you do not know him. Please don't imagine that he has a loving heart beneath that stern exterior.
He is a fierce, pitiless, wolfish man. He could not love a Linton. But he might marry you for your money. Then, if you irritated him, he would crush you like a sparrow's egg, Isabella."
"You just say so because you want him for yourself!" cried Isabella.
"Very well. I have warned you," said Catherine coldly, and she left the room.
"She was lying, wasn't she, Nelly?" sobbed Isabella. "He must have a noble heart, or how could he have loved her for so long? He is not a devil, but a faithful, loving man."
"Forget him, miss," said I. "Mrs. Linton spoke harshly, but I cannot contradict her, and she knows him better than I do.
Honest people don't keep secrets. How has he been living? How has he got rich?
Why is he staying at Wuthering Heights, the house of a man he hates? I saw Joseph the other day, and he told me that Mr. Earnshaw has got worse since Heathcliff arrived. They sit up all night together, drinking and gambling. Hindley has borrowed a lot of money from Heathcliff, offering the house and the land as a security. Joseph says that Hindley is galloping down the road to hell, and Heathcliff is running before him, opening all the gates. Do you want such a man for a husband, miss?"
"You are on Cathy's side," cried the infatuated girl. "You're just saying these things to keep me from being happy."
The next day, Heathcliff came to visit. Catherine and Isabella were sitting in silence together when he arrived.
"Ah!" cried Catherine when he came in. "Heathcliff, here at last is someone who loves you more than I do! No, don't look at Nelly, it's not her. It's my poor little sister-in-law who's breaking her heart over you. If you wish, you can be Edgar's brother. No, no, Isabella, you shan't run off! We were quarreling like cats about you, Heathcliff, and Isabella tells me that if I would stand aside, she would shoot an arrow for love into your heart that would make you forget me forever."
"Let me go, Catherine!" cried Isabella, in distress. "Mr. Heathcliff, please do not listen to her. She is joking, but I find her joke painful in the extreme."
"Heathcliff, doesn't my news make you happy?" continued Catherine, holding Isabella's arm tightly. "Why, Isabella has not eaten for two days because she is so angry with me for having sent her away when we were walking on the moors. She says I wanted to deprive her of your company."
"Well," said Heathcliff, looking at Isabella as one might look at a strange, repulsive animal, a centipede from India, for example. "She clearly does not want to be in my company now."
Poor Isabella went pale, then blushed red. She tried to prise Catherine's fingers from her arm, but could not, so she scratched them.
"Oh, what a tigress! Go away, for God's sake! How foolish you were to show him your tiger claws.
Look, Heathcliff," said Catherine, showing him the crescents of red on her hand. "You must be careful she doesn't scratch your eyes out with them."
"I'd tear them off her fingers if they ever menaced me," he answered brutally.
When the door had closed behind Isabella, "But you were not speaking the truth, were you?"
"Indeed I was," said Catherine.
"How strange! If I lived alone with that pale, insipid face, I would turn those blue eyes black before long, and pin her face the colors of the rainbow."
He fell silent and looked thoughtful for a while, and then he said, "She is her brother's heir, is she not?"
"Not for long! Soon I will have sons to be my husband's heirs!"
"You covet your neighbor's goods too much, Heathcliff. Remember, this neighbor's goods are mine."
From that day onwards, I watched Heathcliff closely. My heart was with my master's interests more than with Catherine's. He was kind, trustful, and honorable. And she—she could not be called the opposite, yet she seemed to allow herself such wild latitude. I had little faith in her principles and less sympathy for her feelings. I wished that Heathcliff would go away again. His visits to the Grange were a continual nightmare to me, and, I suspected, to my master too.
I hated to think of Heathcliff living at Wuthering Heights. I felt that Hindley was like a stray sheep, forsaken by his good shepherd, and Heathcliff was like an evil beast prowling close by, awaiting the right moment to spring and destroy.