Chapter 6
Chapter six. Cathy stayed at Thrushcross Grange for five weeks, till Christmas. By that time her ankle was healed and her manners were much improved. When she came home, I expected a wild little savage without a hat to run in and hug us all so tightly we couldn't breathe.
But instead of that, a very dignified, handsome, well-dressed young lady appeared on the black pony.
"Cathy, what a beauty you are!" cried Hindley. "You look like a lady now."
"She must be careful not to grow wild again now that she is home," said Frances.
Cathy kissed me very lightly indeed because I was covered in flour from making the Christmas cake, and she did not want to get her clothes dirty. Then she looked around for Heathcliff.
Heathcliff," called Hindley, "come forward and greet Miss Catherine, like the other servants."
Heathcliff came forward slowly. He looked even dirtier and wilder than he had done before she left.
She ran up to him and kissed him seven or eight times, then she looked at him and laughed.
"How very black and angry you look," she said, "and funny and grim!"
"That's because I'm used to looking at Edgar and Isabella Linton."
"Well, Heathcliff, have you forgotten me?"
Shame and pride had made him gloomy and unresponsive.
"Go on, Heathcliff," said Hindley, condescendingly, "you are allowed to shake her hand."
"I will not!" cried Heathcliff at last. "I will not be laughed at."
"I did not mean to laugh at you, Heathcliff," said Cathy. "It was only that you looked strange. If you wash your face and brush your hair, you will be all right, but you are so dirty."
"I like to be dirty!" cried Heathcliff, and he left the room.
Hindley and Frances were very amused by this scene, but Cathy was deeply disturbed by it.
She did not know what she had said to upset him so. Hindley and Frances took Cathy off to the drawing room to show her the presents they had bought for the young Lintons. Edgar and Isabella had been invited to Wuthering Heights the following morning, and their mother had agreed that they could come on condition they were kept away from that gypsy boy.
I went into the kitchen and looked around with pleasure and pride at all my preparations for Christmas: the shining stove, the clean floor, the fragrant cakes. I remembered how the old master used to come into the kitchen on Christmas Eve and thank me for my work and give me a shilling as a Christmas present.
Then I began thinking about how fond the old master was of Heathcliff, and how worried he was that Heathcliff would be treated badly when he was no longer there to take care of him. Then I thought about poor Heathcliff's situation now, and it nearly made me cry. However, there is no use in crying, so I went to find Heathcliff instead.
He was feeding the horses in the stable as usual at that hour.
"Come quickly, Heathcliff," I said. "Come to the kitchen and let me dress you nicely before Miss Cathy comes out. Then you can sit together by the fire and talk till bedtime."
He went on feeding the horses in silence. "Are you coming?" I waited and waited, but receiving no answer, I finally left him.
Cathy ate supper with her brother and sister-in-law.
While Joseph and I ate together in the kitchen, Heathcliff did not eat at all. He worked till nine o'clock, then went straight to bed.
Cathy came into the kitchen to look for him once, but since he was not there, she went back to Hindley and Frances.
Heathcliff got up early in the morning and went out onto the moors. He came back when the family had gone to church.
"Nelly," he said, "dress me nicely as you said you would. I'm going to be good."
"At last," I said. "You have hurt Cathy, you know. I bet she sore as she came home. It looks as if you envy her for being so elegant and having friends."
The idea of envying Catherine was incomprehensible to him, but the idea of hurting her was clear enough.
"What makes you think I hurt her, Nelly?"
"She cried when I told her that you had gone off to the moors this morning."
"Well, I cried last night, and I have more reason to cry than she."
"Yes," said I, "you had a reason to go to bed with a proud heart and an empty stomach."
"If you are sorry now, you must say so to Cathy, kiss her and see you are sorry."
"Come now, I'll wash you and dress you so nicely that Edgar Linton will look like a doll beside you! You're younger than he is, and you are taller and broader in the shoulders and stronger too."
Heathcliff looked happy for a moment, then he frowned again.
"But Nelly, he is much more handsome than I am. I wish I had light hair and fair skin and fine clothes and the prospect of being rich as he does."
"Come to the mirror and I will show you what to wish," I said when I had finished washing and dressing him.
"You should wish that your frown would go away and your eyes would look out on the world broadly and confidently, instead of suspiciously as they do now."
"I should wish for Edgar Linton's great blue eyes and smooth forehead, Nelly. But that won't help me get them."
"A good heart will help you to a handsome face," I said, "but look at yourself now. Now you have finished with the washing and dressing, don't you think you are rather handsome? I do. You look like a prince in disguise. Perhaps your father was emperor of China and your mother an Indian queen.
If I were you, Heathcliff, I would believe something of the sort, and it would give me the courage and the dignity to endure the oppressions of a little farmer like Linton Earnshaw."
So I chattered on, and gradually Heathcliff stopped frowning and began to smile.
Then we heard the Lintons' carriage arriving, and behind them the Earnshaws on their horses. They always went to church on horseback.
Catherine brought Edgar and Isabella into the sitting room and set them down by the fire, which soon put a little color into their white faces. I told Heathcliff to hurry into the sitting room and present himself, and he willingly obeyed.
Unfortunately, as he entered the sitting room, he met Hindley, who pushed him back towards the kitchen, crying, "Joseph, keep Heathcliff out of the sitting room."
"Oh, sir," I said, "let him stay. He will be good."
"Go away, you vagabond! Look at this, how clean and elegant you are?"
"I'll pull your hair till it is even longer."
"It's long enough already," said Edgar Linton. "It looks like a horse's mane."
Edgar did not mean to be insulting, but Heathcliff could not bear this remark from someone he already considered a rival. He picked up a bowl of hot apple sauce and threw it over Edgar, who immediately burst into tears. Catherine and Isabella ran over to his side.
Hindley grabbed Heathcliff and took him into his room, where I have no doubt he hit him. Because when Hindley returned, his face was red and his breathing heavy.
"I got a toad, and screwed его face quite hard," telling him that he should not have interfered. Isabella started weeping and saying that she wanted to go home.
Cathy stood there blushing for everyone. She tried to cheer everyone up.
"Come, come," she said. "There is a delicious lunch waiting for us. Let's forget about this unfortunate incident and enjoy ourselves."
They all sat down, and I served the food. I was surprised and disappointed to see Catherine eat her goose with a good appetite and no signs of distress.
"She is an insensitive child," I thought to myself. "How easily she forgets Heathcliff's troubles." But just then her eyes filled with tears. She dropped her fork onto the floor deliberately so that she could hide her face under the table until the tears were gone.
When I tried to take Heathcliff a plate of food, I discovered that he had been locked in his room.
After lunch, some musicians came from the village and there was singing and dancing. Cathy asked if Heathcliff could come downstairs now, but Hindley said no.
Later on, Cathy said she wanted to listen to the music from the top of the stairs. I thought she would go up to the attic where Heathcliff's room was to talk to him through the locked door. When the music was about to end, I went upstairs to warn her. She was not outside Heathcliff's door, but I could hear her voice within. The little monkey had climbed out of the window along the ledge, and in through the window of Heathcliff's room. When she came out again, Heathcliff came with her. She insisted that I take him to the kitchen. I did not like to deceive my master, but since Heathcliff had not eaten all day, I agreed.
Heathcliff was quiet and thoughtful. When I asked him what he was thinking about, he said, "I am trying to decide how to pay Hindley back. I don't care how long I wait. I just hope I do not die before I do it."
"For shame, Heathcliff," said I. "It is for God to punish wicked people. We should learn to forgive."
"No," said Heathcliff. "God won't enjoy it as much! I will leave me alone to make my plans, Nelly. While I'm thinking of that, I don't feel pain."
"But, Mr. Lockwood, you must be tired. I have been chattering on too long, giving too many details. I could have told you Mr. Heathcliff's story in half an hour."
Thus interrupting herself, Mrs. Dean stood up and began to put her sewing away.
"Oh, Mrs. Dean, please stay," I cried. "Do stay another half hour. You did right to tell the story slowly. That is the method I like, and you must finish in the same style."
"But it is eleven o'clock, sir."
"Never mind. I will sleep late tomorrow morning."
"Oh, you shouldn't do that, sir. You miss the best part of the day."
"But I think I have a cold, Mrs. Dean, and will probably stay in bed all day tomorrow, so please sit down again and go on with your story. I'm fascinated by your characters. They seem to live much more earnestly than city people do. City people are too concerned with the surface change and frivolous external things, but here a lifelong love seems almost possible. I have always thought it's impossible for love to last more than one year."
"When you get to know us," said Mrs. Dean, "we country people are like people everywhere else."
"No, Mrs. Dean," I replied, "I don't believe it. You, my good friend, are a striking example of what I mean. You have thought much more than most servants think, and I believe that is because you have lived all your life here. You have been forced to reflect upon things because here you have no frivolous entertainments on which to waste your time."
Mrs. Dean laughed. "I certainly think of myself a sensible woman," she said. "Not because I live in the country, but because my life has been disciplined, and also because I have read more than you think, Mr. Lockwood. There is not a book in the library that I have not looked into and learned something from. Except, of course, those in Latin and Greek and French.
Well, I will continue my story like a true gossip, but I will pass on to the following summer, which was the summer of seventeen seventy-eight, nearly twenty-three years ago."