Chapter 11
The next day I was standing by the window when Heathcliff arrived. Isabella was in the courtyard below. When he saw her, he went up to her and talked to her in an earnest, agitated way. Then he grabbed hold of her and kissed her. I cried out, and Catherine came over to see what was the matter. She called Heathcliff in, and locked herself in the kitchen with him.
There they had a terrible argument. I could hear bits of it as I passed by. Heathcliff told her that she had treated him infernally.
He insulted my master and he swore he would have his revenge. My master, meeting me on the stairs, asked where Mrs. Linton was. I told him she was shut in the kitchen with Heathcliff, and I told him what had happened in the courtyard. He was furious. He called the two of the gardeners to help him, and went to the kitchen.
There he demanded that Heathcliff leave his house and never return again. Heathcliff called him a coward, and might have hit him, but Catherine said, "Go now, Heathcliff." And he obeyed her. After Heathcliff had gone, Catherine and Edgar argued. I heard some of what was said. My master at one point said that Catherine had to choose between Heathcliff and himself.
Soon after that she went to her room and locked herself in. All that day, and the next, she stayed in her room and refused to eat the meals I brought her. I thought she was pretending, trying to make Edgar feel sorry that he had argued with her.
Edgar sat in his study, gloomy and depressed, with the books open before him, but he was not reading. Isabella wandered around the courtyard, weeping most of the time. I went about my normal household duties, convinced that there was only one sensible soul at Thrushcross Grange, and that was lodged in my body.
On the third day, Catherine asked for some water and food. She said she was dying. I was still sure it was all an act. I brought her some tea and toast and she ate it hungrily.
"Where is Edgar? Nay, what is he doing?" she asked. "He's reading in his study, madam," said I. "Reading? Doesn't he know that I'm dying? Haven't you told him, Nelly?" "No, I haven't." "Then go and tell him now, tell him that I am starving myself. Tell him how pale and thin I look." "I shall tell him you just ate some toast and drank some tea, and you seemed to enjoy them."
"If I were sure it would kill him, I would kill myself right now," she said suddenly.
"These three awful nights I have not slept at all! I have been tormented, Nelly, but now I see that you don't like me. How strange! I thought that everyone loved me, even though they hated and despised each other. But now I see that they are all my enemies. How sad to die surrounded by enemies! Open the window, Nelly, and let me breathe the fresh air, let me breathe the air from the moors." "It's cold, madam. You should stay warm in bed and try to sleep." "If you won't open it, I will!" she cried, and before I could stop her she opened the window wide and leaned out into the icy wind. I begged her to close the window and get back into bed. I tried to pull her away from the window, but she was delirious. I knew that now, and it gave her a strength far greater than mine.
"Last night, Nelly, I thought I was lying in my old oak case bed at Wuthering Heights, the tree was tapping on the window, and I was crying because Hindley had separated me from Heathcliff. I lay alone for the first time, crying my heart out. Then I put my hand out, expecting to touch the window sill, but I touched the table instead. I knew that I was here at Thrushcross Grange. Oh Nelly, I wish I were a girl again, half savage and brave and free. Why have I changed so much? I'm sure I would be myself again if I could walk on the moor, open the window." Just then my master came in.
"Oh, sir," said I, "my poor mistress is ill, please come and help me to keep her in her bed."
"Catherine, Nelly, why was I not told?" he asked, shocked at the sight of her thin, pale face. "She would not let anyone into her room until this evening, sir, so I didn't know myself how ill she was."
"But it is nothing, it is nothing, is it, Ellen Dean?" said my master sternly. He took his wife in his arms and looked at her with anguish. "It is all your fault! You told me about Heathcliff, you caused our argument."
"I was just doing my duty as a faithful servant," said I. I left the house to go to the village and find the doctor. On my way out I saw Miss Isabella's little dog hanging by a rope from a tree in the garden. The poor dog was nearly dead when I cut the rope and released it. I wondered who could have done such a thing and why.
But I had no time to think about that. I ran to the village as fast as I could.
When the doctor heard that Catherine Linton was ill, he came back to the Grange with me immediately. "Has her illness anything to do with this business of Mr. Heathcliff and Mrs. Isabella?" he asked, much to my surprise. "Why doctor, how do you know about that?" "Well, they were seen riding by a few hours ago. Some people in the village saw Mr. Heathcliff riding by, and Mrs. Isabella on the horse behind." "Good Lord!" I cried. When we got to the house I ran to Isabella's room, but she was gone. What could I do? I could not pursue them, and I could not tell my master about it. The poor man was absorbed in the calamity of his wife's illness. How could I tell him of a second calamity now? I decided to say nothing. The next morning, however, one of the servants came back from the village and told him everything.
At first he could not believe it, but when we showed him Isabella's empty room he said, "She had a right to go if she wanted to. Trouble me no more about her."