Chapter 16
So the cousins grew up separately: Cathy at the Grange and Linton at the Heights. And they never saw each other, though she asked about him often. One day, when Cathy was sixteen years old, she asked her father if she could go walking on the moors with me.
He said that she could, but that we must not go far. Cathy ran ahead of me as soon as we were beyond the park gate. "Miss Cathy, slow down!" I cried. But it was no use. She ran laughing, and I had to run after her. "Miss Cathy, that's far enough. We must turn back home now," I cried when I saw that she was going too far and in the direction of Wuthering Heights. "Oh, just let's go a little further, Nelly," she called back to me, and she continued to run. When I got to the top of the next hill, I saw her far below me talking to someone. We were now on the edge of Heathcliff's property, and I recognized the tall figure by her as Heathcliff. "Miss Cathy, come away! Go back now!" I cried, but she ignored me, and I had to run down the hill after her.
"Hullo, Nelly," said Heathcliff. "Come to the Heights for a little while. I want young Catherine to meet Linton." "Oh no! Her father will be very angry with me if I let her go to the Heights! Please, Miss Cathy, come home now." Heathcliff took hold of my arm and pulled me along towards Wuthering Heights.
"Don't be silly, Nelly," he said. "What harm can it do?" "I'm sure that you have a bad reason for inviting her," said I. "Nonsense," said he. "I'll tell you my reason. I want the two cousins to fall in love and marry. You know that young Catherine will have nothing when her father dies.
If she marries Linton, she will be the mistress of Thrushcross Grange." "Perhaps he will not live long enough to marry," said I. "And if he dies, young Catherine will inherit the Grange."
"You are wrong there, Nelly. If Linton dies, I shall inherit the Grange. I am his closest relative. No, it would be far better if they married."
We went into the house and there was Linton. He had grown tall and graceful. "Linton, is it really you?" asked Cathy, kissing him.
"How tall you are! You're taller than I am!" Then she turned to Heathcliff and said, "So you're my uncle! How strange that you live so near us, and yet we never see you! From now on I will come every day." "Your father wouldn't like that," said Heathcliff. "He doesn't like me. If you want to come here to visit sometimes, you will have to keep it a secret from your father. He would not allow you to come."
"Then Linton must come to see us at the Grange," said Cathy. "Oh, I couldn't walk so far," said Linton. "It could kill me!" "No, you must come here, Miss Catherine, not every day, but once or twice a week."
Heathcliff looked at his son with contempt. "You see what a weakling he is, Nelly," said he. "Soon she will see it herself, and want nothing to do with him. Now if it were Hareton, things would be different. I often wish that Hareton were my son. But no, he's Hindley's son, and I've made it my business to treat him just as Hindley treated me.
He has no lessons. He cannot read or write. He works on the farm like a servant. Young Catherine will never look at him. I have seen him looking at her, and I know how he feels, because I suffered it all before him."
When we returned to the Grange, we told my master about our visit to Wuthering Heights. He explained to Catherine why he did not wish her to go there, and she promised not to go again. The next day, however, she sent a note to Linton. I did not know it at the time. In fact, many months passed before I realized that Cathy was writing regularly to Linton, sending him presents and receiving presents in return.
One day I found her secret store of letters from him. The first letters were short and timid, but later ones were long love letters. I suspected that Heathcliff had helped – maybe even forced – his son to write them. I confronted Cathy and made her promise to write no more letters to her cousin. I threatened to tell her father, and she promised that she would not write again.
For some time after that she was very sad, and spent hours crying alone in her room. Then a letter arrived for her from Heathcliff. In it he said that Linton had fallen ill because he was so unhappy that Catherine did not write to him any more. Heathcliff said that he was going away for a week. Surely, he said, she would come and visit her cousin while he, Heathcliff, was away. It was winter then, and my master had been ill for some months. At first the doctor had said it was just a bad cold. But then my master seemed to get weaker, and I feared that he would die in January. I too fell ill with a fever.
Just about the time that Cathy received Heathcliff's letter, I thought that she must have been very lonely for those weeks when both her father and I were ill in our beds. Later, however, I discovered that she had not been entirely alone. A few days after I felt better, I went to her room to see if she wanted something to eat, but she was not there. I waited by her bedroom window and after another hour I saw her return from the moors on her pony.
When I confronted her, she told me everything. Every evening for the three weeks I had been ill, she had gone to Wuthering Heights to see her cousin. Sometimes they had passed the pleasant hours together, laughing and talking. But more often Linton had been peevish and irritable. He and Catherine had argued more than once.
On other occasions, Linton argued with Hareton. Hareton seemed jealous that Catherine came to see Linton. He often tried to engage her in conversation, but she was not interested in talking to him. These evenings at Wuthering Heights, therefore, were not all happy ones, and yet she continued to go. Once she had told Linton that she would not visit him anymore, since he was so irritable with her and did not seem to enjoy her company. Then he begged her to come again. He said he knew that he was weak and peevish and bad-tempered, and he was very sorry. He said it was because he was ill, and he begged her to forgive him.
The next day I told my master all that Catherine had told me. It made him very sad and worried.
But finally he agreed to let the cousins meet on the moors once a week to walk or ride together. Because of Linton's health, they could not do this until the warm weather came. When finally they did meet, I accompanied Cathy to the meeting. Linton looked even weaker and more sickly than he had the last time I saw him, though he said he felt stronger.
He was too weak to walk or ride, and he fell asleep for some of the time we were together. He often coughed. At once I saw blood on his lips. I was certain that he was lying about his health, and I could not imagine why he would do so. However, just before we left him, he said something that seemed to explain his strange behavior.
"Miss Catherine, if you see my father and he asks you how I was, please do not tell him that I slept or that I was silent and stupid," he begged anxiously. "Is your father unkind to you, Master Linton?" I asked.
"He would be angry, and I am afraid of making him angry," said the poor weakling. "And do please come again next Thursday. Please come to see me here again."
As we rode away Catherine looked anxious and disappointed. "Nelly, he acts as if he only wants to see me to stop his father from being angry with him," she said at last.
The following Thursday we went to the same place. Linton was waiting there, looking paler than ever.
"Linton," said Catherine sternly. "I know that you do not really wish to see me. Why do you make me come here if you do not wish it? My father is dying. I want to spend every moment by his bedside. I will not come here again." "Please, Catherine," he began, but then his cough interrupted him.
"Don't! Don't be angry with me! It is not my fault if I betray you. It is because I have no choice. I am so afraid." He began coughing again and leaned upon her arm.
"It's no use. Please take me back to Wuthering Heights! I cannot walk alone."
"Linton, you know my father has forbidden me to go to Wuthering Heights. We must call a servant to take you home."
"There is no one in the house except my father, and I am so afraid of him," sobbed Linton. "Please, Catherine, just help me back to the house." Catherine agreed and walked to Wuthering Heights.
With her arm around Linton's waist. When we reached the door, she tried to move away from him, but he grasped her arm and said, "Take me into the sitting room to my chair, please, Catherine. I will fall over if I try to walk alone." Just then Heathcliff appeared from behind the house and grasped my arm. "Come on, Nelly, into the house," he said.
Pushing me forward. As soon as we were in the sitting room, Heathcliff locked the door.
"What are you doing?" cried Catherine. "I'm going to keep you here until you marry my son," said Heathcliff.
"I'm not afraid of you!" cried Catherine, starting to scratch and bite his hand in her attempt to get the key. "You cannot keep me here. My father will be worried about me. Let me go home now. I will marry Linton tomorrow." "Yes," said Heathcliff. "You will marry Linton tomorrow, but you will not go home tonight. I am very glad to hear that your father will be worried. It makes me all the more determined to keep you here."
Catherine bit his hand hard, but he grasped her arm and slapped her face several times.
Then he took us upstairs and locked us in a bedroom. We looked for a way to escape, but the windows were too narrow.
We were imprisoned and there was nothing we could do. The next morning Heathcliff opened the door and took Catherine away. Then he locked the door again. I was left alone in that room for five days. The only person I saw in all that time was Hareton, who brought me food but said nothing. I was left alone to wonder about what was happening to my young mistress and how my poor master would bear it when he heard all.