Chapter 5: Friday's Story
Friday learned to speak quickly. He was very pleased when he understood me or could make me understand him. It was good to talk to him now. My life was easy. I took Friday out with me to shoot a goat. When I fired my gun, Friday trembled and tore open his jacket to see if he was wounded. He knelt on the ground and said many things I did not understand. I think he was begging me not to kill him. I took him by hand and laughed at him, then pointed it to the goat I had shot. He was amazed. I believe that if I had let him, he would have worshipped me and my gun for days afterwards. He would not touch the gun, but he often spoke to it, begging it not to kill him that night, I roasted some meat and gave it to Friday. He enjoyed it so much that he told me he would never again eat man's flesh. I was very glad to hear that. The next day I taught Friday how to make bread.
After a little time he was able to do these things as well as I could do them myself.
This was the best year of my life on the island. Now I had someone to talk to, and he was a pleasant fellow. He was honest and simple. I began really to love him, and I believed he loved me more than he had ever loved anything before. One day I talked to Friday about his nation. I asked him what his nation did with the prisoners they took in battle. Do they carry them away and eat them as these did I asked. Yes said Friday. My nation is the man too. Do they ever carry prisoners to this island yes, sometimes have you been here with them Friday yes, I have been here he pointed to the western side.
Of the island. So Friday had been one of the cannibals who used to come to the other side of the island. He told me that one time he had eaten twenty men, two women and a child. Friday told me many things about people of his nation and nations nearby. Then he told me that at a great distance from his nation there lived a white man like me, and that they had killed many people.
I understood that these were spaniards whose cruelty was well known. I asked him if he thought I could go from this island to the place where the other white man lived. He said I could, but I would need a large boat. I began to hope that I could escape from the island with Friday's help.
I taught Friday all I could about religion. One time I asked him who made him. He did not understand me at all. He thought I had asked who his father was. Then I asked him who made the sea, the earth, the hills and the woods. He told me be a monkey, made them be AMA was very old, much older than the sea or land. Friday said, if this old person has made all things said I, why do all things not worship him Friday looked very serious and said all things say o to him. I asked what happened to the people who died in this country. He said he went to bema. Then I asked whether those they ate went to bed too. He said yes. I then began to teach him about the true god. I told him that a great traitor of all things lived off here pointing towards heaven.
I said he was anipotent. He could give everything to us and take everything away from us. Friday listened very attentively. He liked the idea that Jesus christ was sent to save us and that god could hear our prayers.
He said if god could hear us in heaven, he must be a greater god than benemaki.
Benemaki only heard when people went to the mountains to speak to him. Friday said he told me that only the old men were allowed to go to speak to benemaki. Well, I thought, there are cunning priests even among the savages. I told Friday that the old men were not telling the truth when they said that they had spoken to Ben. I said perhaps they had spoken to the devil. I then had to explain to Friday who the devil was. Some days later I spoke to Friday about god again. Friday said if god is so strong, why does he not destroy the devil? I was surprised at this question. I was a very old man, but I was a very young teacher of religion. I asked him to repeat what he had said, this gave me the time to think of an answer. God will punish the devil in the end said I, that did not satisfy Friday. But why does god not kill him now? Why did god not kill him long ago? I said, why does god not kill you and I when we are wicked?
He gives us time to repent and be forgiven Friday thought about this, then he said, well, well, I understand you, I and the devil are all wicked, but god lets us all live so that we can repent and be forgiven.
Here I was in difficulty again and I thought how true it was that reason alone cannot lead us to salvation. I told Friday that I needed something and sent him to get it. This give me time alone to pray to god that he would help me to teach Friday. As a teacher, I had a more sincerity than knowledge in trying to teach him. I taught myself many things that I did not know before and many I did not really understand. I wanted to understand more than ever before. I do not know whether I helped Friday, but I'm sure that Friday helped me. I was more contented than before and I enjoyed my home very much. I thanked god for allowing me to save the life and perhaps the soul of this poor.
Savage when I thought about these things, I felt a secret joy, and I thanked god for bringing me to this island. Friday, and I lived happily together on the island for three years. The savage was now a good Christian, better indeed than I was myself. One day I showed him the wreck of the boat in which my companions and I had left our ship Friday, looked at it a long time, then said.
Was a boat like that came to my nation. Were they any white men in the boat I asked. Yes said Friday, there were seventeen, and what happened to them they live in my nation he said, perhaps these white men were from the ship that I had seen wrecked near my island, I thought but Friday said I, why do the people of your nation not kill and eat the white man we only eat the flesh of our prisoners we catch in battle said he.
Sometimes after this, when we were on the hilltop looking out to sea, you saw the coast of America. Oh joy cried Friday. There is my country! There is my nation his eyes shone and his face was eager. I began to worry if Friday could return to his own nation. I thought he would forget about me and his new religion. Perhaps he would even tell his people about me and return with hundreds of them to eat me. I worried about this for several weeks, the one day I asked him Friday, would you like to return to your own nation oh yes said Friday, that would make me very happy. What would you do there, I asked. Would you eat man's food? Flesh and become a savage again Friday shook his head and said, no, I would teach them how to live well and how to pray to god. I would teach them to eat bread and the flesh of goats, and never to eat men.
But then I said, they would kill you. N o, t h e y would not kill me. They will be willing to learn. I told him that I would make a canoe for him to go back to his nation. Then Friday said that he would go if I would go with him. I go said I, but they would eat me.
N o, n o, he said, I would tell them not to eat you. I would make them love you very much. I told him again that I would make him a canoe so that he could return to his nation. Friday looked very sad. Why are you angry with me he asked. I said I was not angry with him at all then why do you want to send me away but Friday said I did you not say that you want to go home yes, yes said Friday. I wish we were both there. I do not wish to return alone, but what would I do there Friday I asked. You could do a lot of good there. You could teach my people to be good. You could tell them about god no, no Friday I said, you go without me, and leave me here to live alone as I did before he looked very distressed at my words and taking up.
A hatchet. He gave it to me and said, kill me why must I kill you I asked in amazement. Why do you want to send me away? Do not send me away, it is better to kill me he spoke very sincerely and his eyes were full of tears. I saw clearly that he loved me and would never leave me. I told him that I would never send him away from me if he was willing to stay. We started building a boat large enough for the two of us and all our goods. The rainy season came before we finished the boat.
Therefore, we brought it into the river to keep it safe until the weather was calm.