Chapter 6: Coming Back Home
I had now been on the island for twenty seven years. One day I sent Friday to get a turtle. He came running back from the shore crying, oh, master, master, there are three canes the poor fellow was terribly frightened.
Will you help me to fight them Friday said I, oh, yes said he, and will you do everything I tell you to do yes, yes, I will, said he, then I will defend you Friday said I, giving him a loaded gun and a hatchet.
He said, master, I will die when you tell me to die I took the pistols and my sword, we went up the hill to see what was happening.
There were twenty one savages, three prisoners and three canoes. They had landed closer to my house than ever before. This filled me with anger. But then I thought, what right have I to kill men who have done me no harm? It is a national sin and god alone can punish the nations. Friday could attack them because they were the enemies of his nation. They had tried to kill and eat him, but since they had done me no harm, I had no right to kill them. Therefore, I decided not to attack them. Instead, I would hide myself and watch the cannibal feast. I would wait for a sign from god before I acted. I sent Friday closer to look at.
The savages. He came back and told me they were around the fire eating the flesh of one of their prisoners. Another prisoner was lying upon the sand with his hands and feet bound. Friday said they would kill him next. This made me very angry. Then Friday told me that this other prisoner was not of his nation. He was one of the white men who had come to Friday's nation in a boat. I was horrified at the thought of this white man waiting to be cold and eaten. I went closer and looked through my perspective glass. I saw a white man tied up on the beach. He wore clothes and was clearly an European. I moved closer to the beach keeping myself hidden.
Behind the bushes two savages were approaching the poor Christian. They were going to kill him and bring him piece by piece to the fire. I told Friday to do as I did. I took one of my guns and aimed at the savages. Friday did the same. We both fired our guns at the same moment. Friday was a better shot than I, he killed two of them and wounded three more. All those who were not injured jumped up and looked around in fear and amazement. I threw down that gun and took up another. Friday did the same. Are you ready Friday said I, yes! Then fire in the name of god again! We both fired our guns at the same moment.
Only two were killed, but many were wounded and ran about screaming and covered in blood. Come Friday said I, follow me I ran out of the bushes and I showed myself to the savages. Friday followed me. Without a question I ran towards the poor victim. Some of the savages ran away and jumped into a canoe. I told Friday to shoot them. He killed two of them and wounded another. I pulled out my knife and cut the ropes that bound the poor victim. I asked him in Portuguese what he was. He said as paganin I gave him a gun and a sword. The savages that remained had been very frightened by the sound of my gun. The poor creatures lay on the ground.
Unable to move, the spaniard took the sword and the gun. Very thankfully, this seemed to give him new strength. He attacked his murderers and cut two of them to pieces. I told Friday to get other guns. Then I sat down and began to load them. Friday and the spaniard fought the savages. They came to me when they wanted a loaded gun. Friday pursued the savages who were running away. He killed the four of them with his hatchet. At the end of the battle most of the savages were dead. Three killed at our first shot from the tree, two killed at the next shot. Two killed by Friday in the boat to killed by Friday. Of those at first wounded, one killed by Friday in the wood, three killed by the spaniard, four killed by Friday while they were running away, four escaped in the boat with which one was wounded or dead. Twenty one in all.
All I ran towards a canoe, because I wanted to pursue the savages who had escaped to sea. However, when I got to the canoe I found another poor creature tied up in it. I cut the ropes that bound him and give him rum to drink. Then I told Friday to explain to him that he was saved. But when Friday saw him, he kissed him. He cried, then he laughed, then he danced. I looked at him in amazement. Friday! What does this mean said I, oh master said Friday, with the tears in his eyes, that prisoner is my father I was sincerely moved to see how much Friday loved his father he got into the boat and took his father in his arms.
There he stayed for half an hour, holding his father close. Friday took good care of his father and the spaniard. He ran back to the house to bring them bread and fresh water. They were both very weak and their feet hurt from being tied, so they could not walk. Friday put the spaniard into the canoe beside his father. He pushed the canoe around the shore to our river.
We carried them from the river to the house, but there we met a great difficulty. How could we get them over the fence? It was impossible. So Friday and I set to work in about two hours. We built a handsome tent for them, covered with sails, just outside the second fence. My island was now peopled. I was the king, and all my subjects owed their lives to me because I had saved them all from certain death. Although I had only three subjects, they were all of different religions. My man Friday was a protestant, his father was a pen gun and a cannibal, and the spaniard was a Catholic. However, I allowed the freedom of religion.
What was an English ship doing here, far from the English trading routes? I decided to be cautious. Now I am sure that these doubts were messages sent from god. If I had not been cautious, I would have been. I saw the boat land on the beach. There were eleven men. Three of them were bound with the ropes. The three prisoners were crying out to the others, begging for mercy. Friday, who was by my side, said to me, oh master, you see, englishman is prisoners too.
No, Friday said I, they might murder them, but they will not eat them at about two o'clock in the afternoon the prisoners were left alone under a tree. The other man had gone into the woods to sleep Friday, and I took our guns and went down to show ourselves to the prisoners. When I was a very near to them, but still hidden by the bushes, I cried out, who are you, gentlemen they were frightened by my voice, but they were even more frightened when I stepped out into the open. I was wearing my goatskin jacket and my hat. A naked sword hung by my side. I carried two guns and two pistols. I thought they were going to run away from me, so I said.
Do not be afraid. I'm your friend. How can I help you one of them replied, you must be sent from heaven. All help is from heaven Sir I said, now tell me what has happened the poor man, with the tears running down his face, said, I was the captain of that ship, but my men have rebelled against me. They wanted to kill me, but I persuaded them to leave me on this island with my two friends here do your enemies have guns I asked. He said they had only one gun with them and another in the boat.
Well said I, it will be easy to kill them because they are all asleep, but should we take them prisoner instead? He said that two of them were so. Evil that they must be killed and then the others would properly obey. If I save you, sir said I, you must promise to accept me as your leader and be faithful to me he promised, and the other two did the same. Then I gave them each a loaded gun. They went into the woods towards the sleeping man. One awoke and cried out to the others. The captain's two companions fired their guns. They killed the two rebel leaders and took two prisoners. The others then begged for a mercy.
With this re in the men, the captain went in the boat to the ship. Since the rebel leaders were now dead, the man on the ship decided to obey him once more. He then returned to the island and said to me, my.
Good friend, there is your ship these words affected me greatly. I sat down upon the ground with the tears in my eyes. I did not forget to give thanks to god for delivering me. We asked the two rebel prisoners if they wished to be left on the island or to return to England where they would be punished. They said they wished to stay on the island. Therefore I showed them my house, my goats, my grain plantation, my goods. I gave them guns and powder, and I wished them a good fortune. And thus I left the island on the nineteenth of December sixteen eighty six, having lived there for twenty eight years, two months and nineteen days. I was delivered on the! Same day of the same month that I escaped from slavery in sale.
I took with me my goatskin hat, my umbrella and apparelt, I also took the money that had been so useless to me.
After a long voyage I arrived in England in the thth of June, having been away for thirty five years. We had many adventures afterwards. My man Friday and I I married and had three children, but then my wife died. A friend came home from a successful voyage. He persuaded me to go in his ship to the east Indies. Our adventures on this later voyage may perhaps be the subject of another story.