Chapter 2
Part two. Stranded on the island. I looked up and thanked god for saving my life. A short time before there has seemed to be no hope. It is impossible to describe the joy of someone who has just escaped death.

I alone had survived, all my companions were dead. When I saw how far away the ship was, I was amazed that I had been able to get to shore. I then began to look around me to see what kind of a place I was in.

My joy left me, I was wet, I had no other clothes and I had nothing to eat or drink. Surely I would die of starvation or be eaten by wild animals I had no gun with which to hunt for food or defend myself.

For a while I ran around trembling and crying. Night came. I walked around looking for fresh water. When I found some, I drank, then I climbed up a tree to sleep. When I awoke, the sun was shining. The waves had moved the ship closer to the shore. During the night I realized that if we had stayed on board, we would all have survived the storm. This thought made the tears run down my face. I took off my clothes and swam to the ship.

I climbed aboard and looked around. The ship's store of food was not wet. I needed a boat or a raft to carry the goods back to the shore. There were several large pieces of wood on the ship. I threw them into the sea, then jumped in myself and tied them all together with rope.

In this way, after a lot of time and effort, I made a raft. I then loaded the raft with food, clothes, tools, guns and bullets, all packed in wooden boxes. I got onto the raft and returned to the shore.

A short distance from where I had landed the night before, I saw a river. I landed the raft a little way up the river, and got all my goods on shore. I did not yet know whether I was on the mainland or an island. I took a gun and climbed a hill.

From the top of the hill I saw that I was on an island. I saw many birds, but no animals or people.

On my way back down the hill, I shot a bird. I believe it was the first gun fired there since the creation of the world.

At the sound, thousands of birds rose screaming into the air that evening. I set wooden boards and boxes around me to protect me as I slept. The next day I returned to the ship. This time I got a hammock, blankets, hatchets, a perspective glass and sails.

Back on shore I made a tent out of one of the sails. I brought everything into the tent that could be ruined by rain or sun. Then I made a bed and slept in it quietly all night, for I was very tired from the work of the day.

I had the largest store, I believe, that was ever laid up for one man. However, I was not satisfied. The ship had not yet broken to pieces and I thought I should get everything I could out of her.

Every day I went to the ship and brought back more goods. I brought bread, rum, sugar and many other things back to my tent. Finally, there was nothing more to take out of the ship. I then began to take pieces of the ship itself, iron, nails, rope, I carried away everything I could.

I have now been on the island for thirteen days, and had been eleven times on board the ship. I think that if the weather had remained calm I would have brought the whole ship away piece by piece.

The last time I went to the ship, I found money. I smiled and said, oh drug, what are you good for? One knife is worth more to me than all this money. I will leave you here. You are a creature whose life is not worth saving however, on second thoughts, I took it away.

Then clouds covered the sky and the wind began to blow. I went home to my tent where I lay with all my wealth around me, very secure. There was a bad storm that night.

In the morning the ship was gone. I now began to think about protecting myself from savages and wild animals. I wanted to build my house in a place that was near a fresh water supply. It should be sheltered from the sun, it should be safe from attack. Finally, it should face the sea. So that I could see any ship that came near the island. I still hoped to be rescued. I found a little flat shelf on the side of a hill.

There was a cliff behind it so that nothing could attack me from behind. In front, the hill descended to the beach. It was on the north side of the hill so that it was sheltered from the sun all day.

I built my tent against the cliff, then I built a high, strong wooden fence in a semicircle around the front of my tent. I made a ladder.

When I was inside, I could bring the ladder in after me. In this way, neither man nor beast could enter my house. It took a lot of time and effort to carry all my goods inside.

Then I began to dig out a cave in the cliff behind my tent because I needed a place to store my property.

After a big storm, I was afraid that lightning might strike my great box of gunpowder. Therefore I made many small boxes and put the gunpowder in them. These I hid in places secure from lightning. Every day I went out hunting there were goats on the island. I shot a she goat that had a little kid by her. This made me very sad.

When I carried the dead she goat to my house, the kid followed me, but it would not eat. I was therefore forced to kill it and eat it. I thought about my situation a lot. The storm had blown the ship hundreds of miles away from the European trading routes.

Therefore, I thought it was god's will that I should spend the rest of my life on this miserable island. I often ask myself why god chose to ruin his creatures. It seemed hardly rational to be thankful for such a life. Then one day when I was walking on the beach with my gun, I thought, certainly you are miserable, but what happened to the others? You alone were fortunate enough to survive.

Is it better to be on this island or at the bottom of the sea? Then I thought how well equipped I was to survive on the island.

What would have happened to me IFA ship had not been blown closer to shore? That happy chance allowed me to take all these things from the ship. How would I have lived without guns and bullets, tools and clothes? I was afraid that I would forget what day it was, I might even forget the sabbath. Therefore, I planted a great wooden cross on the beach.

And on it I carved these words with my knife I came on shore here on the thirtieth of September sixteen fifty nine.

Upon the sides of the post, I made a small cut with my knife every day. A longer cut every Sunday and an even longer cut for the first day of every month. I forgot to say before that among the things I took from the ship were some Catholic prayer books and three bibles.

There were also two cats and a dog on board the ship. I carried the cats back with me to the island. The dog jumped into the sea and swam after me. I tried to comfort myself by listing the comforts I enjoyed beside the miseries I suffered like this.

Evil I am stranded on an island with no hope of being saved. I have been singled out. I alone am chosen to lead this miserable life. I am separated from mankind without human society. I have not close to cover me, I have no means of defending myself against attack by man or beast, I have no soul to speak to.

Good, but I am alive, not drowned as well the other men on the ship, but I have also been singled out to survive. And he who saved me can deliver me from this condition, but I am not starving.

There is food on the island. But the weather is hot and I do not need clothes. But I see no wild beasts on this island. What if I had been ship wrecked on the coast of Africa, where I saw the lion and the leopard?

But god sent the ship near enough to the shore that I have been able to supply myself with many things.

This showed me clearly that even in the most miserable conditions, there are things for which to be thankful.