Chapter 3
Part three, lord of the island. One day I found among my goods a little bag that had once held grain on board our ship. I decided to use it to store my powder. So I shook it out near the rock outside my house. Soon afterwards, the rains came.

A month later I saw some young plants growing there. I had forgotten all about the grain bag. When the plants grew, I was surprised to see the some were our English barley and others were rice.

Up to this point, I had very little idea of religion. I thought of everything that had happened to me as chance.

When I saw English barley growing there, I thought it was a miracle. God had made it grow there to comfort me. This thought brought tears to my eyes.

Then I remembered shaking out the bag in that place just before the rains came. This calmed my mind. I thought the grain had grown there by chance, and so I felt less thankful to god. But I should have been thankful anyway because the chance of grain growing there was very small.

By chance, ten or twelve grains of barley and rice had remained in the bottom of the bag.

By chance I had shaken out the bag in the shade of the rock where it was projected from the sun. I carefully saved the grain to plant again. Hoping to grow enough to supply me with bread.

April the sixteenth I finished my letter. With this I could climb over the fence. The fence was now thick and high. From outside, the house could not be seen. At last I was safe from attack by man or beast.

The next day, the earth came falling down from the roof of my cave and the hill above it. I thought that my cave was falling in as it had done before. I climbed the fence for fear of being buried alive. Once outside, I realized that it was an earthquake. I was terrified that the hill would fall upon my tent and bury all my goods. I sat on the ground feeling miserable. The wind rose and there was a great storm. It lasted about three hours.

At that time, I sat on the ground terrified and miserable. But I never had one serious religious thought.

Two hours later, the air and sea were calm and it began to rain. I realized that the storm had been the result of the earthquake and that the earthquake was now over. I went in and sat in my tent.

June the sixteenth. On the beach at the other side of the island, I found a large turtle. I had never seen one before, but I soon discovered that there were many on the other side of the island.

June the nineteenth. I fell ill and began shivering. June the twentieth I did not sleep all night because of the fever. June the twenty first. I was terrified by my illness and had no one to help me. I prayed to god for the first time since the storm on the sea by how I could not think clearly.

For several days I lay shivering with fever. June the twenty sixth. I woke up feeling better. Having no food, I took my gun and killed a goat. I found it very difficult to carry the goat home because I was weak from my illness.

This to me I asked myself, but then I remembered my wicked life and I said to myself, why do you ask why god has done this to you. Ask instead why you were not killed long ago sadly disturbed by these thoughts, I went to my chest to look for some tobacco.

There I also found the bibles I had taken from the ship. I took one of the bibles and began to read.

The first words I saw were these. Call on me in the day of trouble. And I will deliver you. And you will praise me the words were very relevant to my situation, and I often thought about them afterwards.

Before going to bed, I knelt down and prayed to god. I asked him to fulfill the promise of the Bible and deliver me. I had taken rum and tobacco, so I fell asleep and did not wake up until about three in the afternoon of the next day.

When I awoke, I was refreshed and cheerful. July the third. I thought often about the words in the Bible will deliver you. But it seemed impossible that I should escape from the island. Then suddenly I said to myself, but I had been delivered from my illness, god had delivered me, but I had not praised him. Instead of thanking him for saving my life, I had thought only of escaping from the island. July the fourth. I began to read the Bible seriously. I decided to read a little every morning and every night now I understood the words call on me and I will deliver you.

In a different way. Before, I had asked to be delivered from my island prison. Now I asked to be delivered from the guilt of my sinful past. Deliver from sin is a far greater blessing than deliverance from misery.

My mind was now calm and comforted. I had been on this unhappy island for more than ten months. I believed that no human being had ever come here before. I was lord of the whole island. If I liked, I could call myself king or emperor. I had enough wood to build twenty ships, enough food for an army forgotten.

However, if I could not use it, it was of no value to me. I had enough to eat, so the rest was useless. I would have gladly given all my money for a little ink. Because it would have been useful, my life was now much easier than before. I thought much more about the blessings of my present life and much less about its misfortunes.

My ink had been gone for some time, my clothes were all worn out. I made new clothes for myself from the skins of the goats I killed. This was very slow and difficult work since I had no needle. The weather was so hot that I could have gone naked, however, I did not want to go naked even though there was no one to see me. I could not go naked because the sun was so strong they it would burn my skin. I therefore made myself clothes, a hat and even an umbrella. I tried to make a boat or canoe with which to escape from the island. For a clearer day, I could see the mainland. It took me a long time to build the canoe. When it was finished, it was too big for me to move. I could not get it to the shore and so I left it where I had built it. Later I made a smaller boat, but this was not large enough to take me to the mainland. I used it to sail around my island.

My life continued in this way for many years. It was an orderly life filled with work and the praise of god. I was not unhappy.

I was a king of of my island, my subjects were the goats. My subjects were the goats. The dog, the cats and some parrots I had tamed. There were no rebels among my subjects. One day around noon, something happened that changed my life on the island. I found the print of man's naked foot on the beach. I stood and look at the footprint in amazement. I looked around me but saw nothing. I went to higher ground and looked again but it was the same, I saw no one and no other footprint except that one, I was terrified and went home to hide myself.

At first I thought it must have been the footprint of the devil, for how could a human being have come to this place? I then began to think the print was left by savages from the mainland. They must have come in canoes and left again. I was very thankful that they had not seen my boat. How strange is the life of a man! Today we desire what tomorrow we fear. For years I had desired human society. Now I was terrified at the thought that another human being had set his foot upon the island.

I thought again of the words in the Bible, call upon me in the day of trouble and I will deliver you, and you will praise me I pray to god to deliver me from danger from danger.

Afterwards I opened my Bible and I read. Wait on the lord and be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart. Although these words comforted me, I was still afraid.

Fear of danger is ten thousand times more terrifying than danger itself. I no longer trusted in god as I had before.

If I had kept my trust in god, I would have been more cheerful in this new distress.