**Part three the letter**

When I left the eating place, I hurried to the house of the two gentlemen. I wanted to correct the mistake they had made. I was very nervous. When I arrived, the same servant opened the door. I asked for the two gentlemen. They are gone the servant said.

Gone? Gone where? Oh, on a journey but where did they go? To the continent I think the continent yes, sir when will they return? In a month a month oh, this is awful how can I talk to them? It's extremely important I can't help you I I don't know where they are, sir then I must see a member of the family all the family are away they're in Egypt and India I think before leaving, the two gentlemen made an enormous mistake they will certainly return home tonight tell them that I came here to correct the mistake, I'll return tomorrow. I'll tell them if I see them, but I won't see them sir, you must not worry because everything is all right they will be here on time and they will see you then.

Good. Goodbye I was confused, my head was in a fog I did not understand what the servant told me the letter? I remembered the letter. This is what it said. You are an intelligent and honest man. You are also poor and a stranger. In this envelope you will find some money. It is yours only for thirty days. At the end of thirty days, return to this house. I have a bet on you.

If I win this bet, you can have any job with any salary that you want there were no signature, no address, no date on the letter.

How strange! I didn't know what to think. I went to a park, sat down and thought about what to do.

After an hour I reached the decision that follows. The two old gentlemen are playing a game that I don't understand. They are betting on me. But at that time, I didn't know anything about the details of the bet.

If I go to the bank of England to return the bank note, the bank will ask me lots of questions.

If I tell the truth, no one will believe me, they will put me in an asylum. If I tell a lie, the police will put me in prison. I can't even give it to anyone because no honest person will want it. I can do only one thing I must keep the bill for a whole month and I must not lose it. If I help the old man to win his bet, he'll give me the job I want.

The idea of an important job with a big salary made me happy. With this exciting idea in mind, I began walking down the streets of London.

---